Shortterm these markets are being driven
by momentum. We are underweight the
entire tech complex at this point.
>> We stay risk strong heading into next
year.
>> There is chance for some deterioration
in equity markets.
>> We're embracing a broadening out theme.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks sort of trying to
rally for a third straight day with Fed
rate cuts squarely in focus. Investors
expressing concern that Kevin Hassid is
the right choice for the Fed chair as
they look ahead to more jobs data after
yesterday's ADP numbers showed ongoing
labor market weakness. Amarie ADP
showing the biggest monthly drop going
back to March of 2023. And that's why
today's challenger jobs report in 90
minutes time. And then also we're going
to get claims and update on that is
going to be incredibly important because
we are still waiting for BLS to give us
the updated jobs report and we're not
going to get it until after the Federal
Reserve meets. So all of this what many
would
socialize as second tier or third tier
data matters so much more which is a
reason why people are looking ahead as
you said challenger as well as jobless
claims and the reason why ISM services
data yesterday was also incredibly
important. The key aspect here was that
prices paid did not meet expectations.
This is good news because it didn't
really indicate there was massive
inflation. At the same time, still sub
50, still in contraction territory for
the employment component. What is going
on with jobs? That continues to be the
key question. That is the key question
and it's going to be challenging for not
just the Federal Reserve but also next
year for this administration. The
president Axios is reporting that the
president plans to go on the starting
next week in Pennsylvania and then also
continuing into the new year domestic
stops starting with Pennsylvania
obviously a key swing state that was for
him. There's been a lot of concern they
spent too much time the past few months
on foreign policy and ahead of the
midterms election where inflation is and
where individuals are in terms of the
labor market are incredibly important.
We get lucky this morning because we
have the expert on jobs, the woman of
the moment, Nila Richardson, who is the
head economist over at ADP. You are the
person that everyone's seeking out right
now to get a clean picture on the jobs
market just simply because we do not
have non-front payrolls and you have
been the most consistent provider of
this data. How weak are things really?
Well, first of all, it's a team. Thank
you to those at ADP who are providing
this data, this payroll data at this
moment. Um, it's weak. uh the weakening
is happening, but the overall structure
of the labor market we can't forget is
pretty sound at an unemployment rate,
the last rate of 4.4%. This is not where
we were coming out of the great
recession. So, let's bring it back and
anchor it in the fact that we have
unemployment under 5%. But going
forward, hiring has slowed in its
momentum and small firms particularly
are vulnerable to the macro environment
right now, which is what you're hearing
and what the commentary was coming out
of ADP. Neil is going to be sticking
with us for the entire hour. We're so
glad to say right now what we're seeing
in markets is pretty much a fluctuation
across the board. Sort of moving between
gains and losses. NASDAQ just slightly
lower in futures this morning. As we
look ahead to potential news after the
bell, we get Huelet Packer Enterprises
as well as Docuine. Everyone parsing
through all of these third tier earnings
to try to get a sense of what's going on
for the day ahead. We get also jobless
claims as Amarie was saying at 8:30 a.m.
and the challenger of job cuts in about
90 minutes time. Coming up this hour,
we've got Aaron Kennan of Clear Harbor
Asset Management as stocks look for a
third day of gains. Angelo Zeno of CFRA
Research as Nvidia nears a big win on
Capitol Hill. and Terry Wiseman of
McQuary as Wall Street pushes back on
the potential next Fed chair. We begin
this hour with stocks little change as
markets shake off a recent slump. Aaron
Kennan of Clear Harbor Asset Management
writing, "At this stage of the cycle, we
believe it is prudent to counterbalance
mega cap exposure." Aaron joins us now.
Aaron, this goes to the heart of the
question of the moment. We've seen real
outperformance from the Russell 2000. At
the same time that, as Mila was just
mentioning, we see real caution in the
labor market. How do you get optimistic
about the rest of the 493 if you don't
see green shoots in the underlying
economy?
>> Well, thanks Lisa. Yeah, good morning. I
I think it's it's quite interesting to
see, you know, you look at Q3 earnings
here in the United States and the mega
cap uh sector grew nicely at about a 22%
rate. To your point, 493 other names
grew less, but but they did accelerate
relative to Q2 and Q1. They're up about
11% annualized. So, we sort of applaud
that and I would also argue we're
entering this phase of of AI
application. We heard from Jensen Wong
this week with also the CEO of Synopsis
by his side talking about how AI
penetration is really going to start
impacting the industrial sector, the
healthc care sector, the biotech sector
and and we think that's going to acrue
nicely not just the mega cap and the
hyperscaler narrative that we've been
talking about all year but to the
broader economy going forward. November
we saw outperformance of equal weight
and and just over the last couple days
it's been about uh steady as she goes
equal weight versus market cap.
>> Are you saying Erin just to sort of dig
a little deeper and develop on this that
it isn't a contradiction to not see
labor market expansion right now at the
same time that corporate profitability
is hanging in there.
>> I I think there are a couple things
going on and and Nila can probably speak
to this as well. The ADP report
yesterday indicated some significant
softening in the small business sector.
Where have we seen job growth coming out
of COVID? Small businesses. That's been
the predominant area of job growth. So
if that were to continue to accelerate
in the wrong direction, we think that
would augur poorly for the idea that you
know consumer consumption consumption is
ready to accelerate. It could have real
implications for certain sectors of the
economy. On the other hand, we think
over the next couple of years, the the
penetration, the application of AI
across the economy is going to
disintermediate disintermediate some
workers from some important key sectors
in the economy. But um you know, just
like that uh horse and buggy uh worker
who who at at at the birth of the
automobile had to decide what to do.
They didn't all just join Ford Motor
Company, right? they need there will be
a skills uh shift that that's required.
There will be um a speed bump in the
employment transition and so we would
anticipate that um in in the years
ahead.
>> Erin, I'm curious in your thoughts about
how critical the small business the main
street economy is to your projections of
the uh asset market going forward,
especially in 2026. If, and that's a big
if, question mark right now, if the
labor market continues to weaken, do you
still see the kind of stock market
performance we we we've seen to date
going into the new year?
>> You know, I think it's been this
K-shaped recovery. It's been the tale of
of of two consumers. Anila, you know, we
you look at um almost half maybe 45% or
so of working adults here in this
country have no financial assets. Um yet
they are consumers. But were they
consumering in the in the the
nondiscretionary areas. So we would want
to be mindful of that as it pertains to
to to the market in 2026. But as we look
forward, we think about 2026 and Marie
started the show at the top talking
about the midterm elections. So, you
know, hard to believe we're going to
have fiscal tightening going into 26. In
fact, we know we're not going to because
the big beautiful big beautiful bill is
going to be stimulative. And we also
anticipate further rate cuts, not just
next month, but also in in the in the
coming year. And so for for us that that
bodess well. We're starting to see some
disinflationary trends. We know AI, like
most technologies, will will most likely
prove to be disinflationary. So that's
good. And we're starting to see rents uh
come down as well. Um that that's always
with a lag. And we're starting to see
that play play out in the data. So, I'm
not sure we see the 2% target in 26 for
that the Fed would like to see, but
probably um uh probably would we'll see
some core areas of CPI moderate.
>> Aaron, when you look at Fed rate cuts
next year, there's this Financial Times
story that bond investors are telling
the Treasury Department that they are
concerned about what Kevin Hasset would
mean for the bond market, potentially
wanting to really run a very dovish
monetary policy. Are you concerned about
a Kevin Hasset chair?
>> Well, I I I I my my sense is that the
market is of the view that there are
other candidates that are perhaps
um more qualified
um and and more independent than Kevin
Hasset. And I I think that's the
prevailing view. Um we we need a
committee. We need consensus on the
committee. Is he able to bring consensus
together so that the market doesn't
think that there's this desperate view
on the committee that leads to some sort
of internal cat fight at the FOMC for
two days and a rate policy decision
with, you know, a dot plot that that
that looks like um uh it has a wide
dispersion. I don't think that would be
healthy for for the market. And I think
that's one of the fears that that I
would have with with a hasser. Perhaps
with um um other candidates that are on
the list, I'd feel significantly more
comfortable uh with that. I think the
market would. Um so um certainly uh our
view though is that the the Fed is
poised regard regardless and Marie of
who's at the top to see rate cuts
continue. uh probably two two more cuts
in 2026, another one in December, and it
probably doesn't matter who who's at the
helm for that to happen.
>> You're being very diplomatic, but do you
think that he is credible to run the
central bank?
>> I mean, he's certainly competent. I I I
just, you know, we all have observed
him. Um he's competent. Um it's just a
question of whether or not he is going
to be perceived as as having the type of
independence that historically the a Fed
chair uh has and historically that the
market has has applauded. I mean, it's
one of the the crown jewels of of our
our economic independence in this
country is having a a central bank Fed
chair who is not um a puppet for any one
individual, but is truly looking
objectively at the data set um and
trying to come to the best conclusion on
behalf of the American people. So, um
I'll leave it there.
>> Aaron Kennan of Clear Harbor Asset
Management, thank you so much for being
with us uh in a very diplomatic
response. Sila, I would turn that
question back to you, the one that you
asked him, and it relates to Amar's
point here about the next Fed chair. Can
asset markets continue to rally if you
don't see green shoots in some of these
smaller businesses? And the answer is
honestly, yes, if the Fed is
accommodative, do you see the same
backdrop or do you think that the
weakness that we're seeing in some of
these anecdotal data are truly
pernicious, are truly problematic? The
one concern that I've had about this
labor market going back for more than a
year is how concentrated the hiring has
been. If you look at the those sectors
that are nonyclical, healthc care,
leisure and hospitality, that's where
you've seen the job growth. Now, we're
seeing a little more job growth in
natural resources in mining, and I think
that's tied to data centers, uh, which
are resource intensive. But if we have
this very concentrated US economy, it
makes us more vulnerable to cyclical
shocks. And so, I'd like to see a more
broad-based asset environment and a more
broad-based labor market. We're not
seeing that right now. As long as it
stays concentrated, even if growth is
solid, it's still vulnerable to these
kinds of shocks,
>> which is the reason why you hear the
White House talking about this so much
because clearly this is front and focus.
The recent news is that Scott Besset,
currently Treasury Secretary, is going
to take another hat and be the National
Economic Council director as well. If
Kevin Hassid is named to the Fed as you
were mentioning and Marie, I just wonder
what would the goal be in consolidating
economic policy in Scott Besson. Do we
have a sense of what that looks like?
>> I think it's already happening. It's
just not official. The Treasury
Secretary is basically running the
economic policy. He's in and out of the
White House every single day. Very
different than the Biden administration
set up with how they would use the NEC
director versus how they would use Janet
Yellen, the Treasury Secretary. What
Kevin Hasset has become, and Jonathan
has said this before, how the Trump
administration use NEC, not what it's
supposed to be in terms of coordinating
across different agencies, it's the
president's marketing department for his
economic policy. this is someone he
wants to go out there and sell his
agenda. Well, the Treasury Secretary is
really the one that is driving what the
policy is. So, I think it's a
distinction, but it's not actually going
to mean a difference of what is
happening every single day.
>> Distinction without a difference. A good
way of framing it. Right now, you are
seeing uh stocks fluctuate between gains
and losses. The Russell 2000
outperforming right now. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yhierra on it. Jihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. French President Emanuel
Mcronone pushing for more Chinese
investment during a meeting with Chinese
President Xiinping. Mcronone said Europe
including France needs a clear framework
to attract more Chinese direct
investment. He also warned that China's
growing trade surplus with the world is
becoming unsustainable.
Meanwhile, as you all were just
discussing, Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant could be the next National
Economic Council director. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
President Trump's top aids are
considering Bessant for the dual role.
Bessent would replace Kevin Hasset, who
Trump has hinted could be named the next
chair of the Federal Reserve. And Amazon
is considering ending its partnership
with the US Postal Service due to rising
prices. The Washington Post reporting
the e-commerce giant is preparing to
expand its own nationwide delivery
network if it's unable to reach a deal
with USPS. Nothing has been finalized
yet, but the loss of Amazon's business
risks multi-billion dollar losses for
the US Postal Service. That's rumor
brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Yhierra. Yeah, the
USPS doesn't break out exactly who its
customers are and what volumes, but it
is believed that Amazon is the biggest
by far in terms of customer base. Up
next, President Trump's cost concerns.
>> Just about everything is down. You know,
this whole thing is they use the word
affordability. It's a Democrat hoax.
They're the ones that drove the prices
up.
>> Ed Mel's Raymond James joining us next
from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Good morning. We are seeing stocks
fluctuate between gains and losses after
the Russell 2000 really has posted the
outperformance over the past three days
fueled by bets on rate cuts. Right now
basically flat on the S&P futures.
NASDAQ just inflecting lower just a
touch. You are seeing a reversal of some
of the yield gains, price uh price up,
yields down that we saw yesterday, up
about two basis points pretty much
across the board as people reassess just
how likely it is that the Fed is going
to cut rates aggressively. Under
surveillance this morning, President
Trump's cost concerns.
My administration has taken historic
action to lower costs for American
consumers, protect American auto jobs,
and make buying a car much more
affordable for countless American
families and also safer. Just about
everything is down. You know, this whole
thing is they use the word
affordability. It's a Democrat hoax.
They're the ones that drove the prices
up. I think affordability is the
greatest conjure. When they use the word
affordability, they never say anything
else.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
doubling down on his claims that prices
are falling. Trump looking to lower the
cost of autos as voter concerns over
inflation weigh on the president's
approval rating. Bloomberg's Mike
Shepard joins us now from Washington DC.
Can you parse through uh what we have
heard? Uh President Trump has talked
about how the affordability issue has
been a hoax uh by the Democrats for
quite a bit. What is the context here?
What is the the meaning?
>> Well, there is a bigger context here,
Lisa. And it was interesting to hear the
president yesterday call affordability a
conj job and a hoax and then lean into
the affordability question in essence by
presenting his moves to uh lower and
relax fuel uh efficiency standards uh as
a way to save consumers some money. uh
and they are conscientious of this whole
question of cost for consumers because
during the midterm the the off-year
elections last month we saw Democratic
gubernatorial candidates in New Jersey
and Virginia ride to victory over the
Republican rivals by arguing very much
so on the affordability question. And
while the president may have a point
when it comes to gasoline costs, which
are down 14 cents a gallon since he took
office, we are still seeing increases in
grocery prices and even more so in
electricity prices, which on a
year-over-year basis are up 7.4%.
And the president has to be keeping a
close eye on the price of energy in
particular because part of his agenda
depends on expanding all of those data
centers which rely so much on energy and
access to electricity which isn't
expanding fast enough to keep up with
demand and that is driving up prices and
that looks to be an argument that
Democrats will start to make heading
into the midterms next year.
>> Bloomers Mike Shepard, thank you so
much. We definitely saw that in the mid
midterms. Joining us to continue the
conversation is Ed Mills of Raymond
James. Ed, a bigger question here to
you. What do you make of the strategy
that President Trump is is taking, which
is to essentially deny the sentiment
surveys that were part of what got him
into office.
>> Lisa, it's the playbook I've seen every
single time. Um, it is something that
I've always told clients here at Raymond
James is that President Trump doesn't
spend time on the defense. He goes on
the offense every single opportunity. Uh
so what we're seeing here is exactly
what was just discussed. Um Republicans
did not do well last month in the
elections. He's looking at the midterms.
He wants to make sure that he can keep
the House, keep the Senate. The Senate's
in a better position, but he is going to
try to go on the offense here. He wants
to talk about his tax cuts that was
passed in July. uh the auto piece here.
There's going to be the deductibility
for auto interest for certain um kind of
cars made here in the United States. Uh
and he's going to probably aggressively
lean into kind of who his next pick is
for the Federal Reserve trying to bring
down interest rates. And one thing I've
been telling clients is if we get a uh
pick for the Federal Reserve here in the
next month, I don't see Jay Powell
lasting in that seat until his term ends
in May, I think that new Fed chair could
be in that seat for the March meeting uh
and getting those rate cuts sooner
rather than later uh pushing that
affordability pitch uh quicker um for
this Trump administration. Ed, the
consensus is that Jay Powell is
considering maybe sticking around,
keeping his governor chair even though
his chairmanship is going to be ending
next year, but you actually think that
he would leave running the central bank
earlier than his term end. Yeah, Amarie,
I think the real question is is that
once you have a selection for chair, um
if the president has, you know, kind of
nominated someone, if the Senate
approves that individual, um and maybe
look at kind of Steve Myron's term, it
ends on January 31st. So, there's going
to be an open slot if it is Kevin
Hasset. Uh if the Senate has confirmed
the replacement, uh is that person the
new chair? uh all of the conversations
that we were having about will Trump
fire Powell, uh one of the only ways
that there was a consensus out there
that you could potentially replace a
chair is if the president has appointed
and the Senate has confirmed a
replacement. Now, Jay Powell's term
would have ended earlier than May 15th,
uh if Biden hadn't uh delayed in
renominating Powell in the first place.
And so I think this is going to be the
conversation that speeds up pretty
quickly here is is there going to be a
five sixmonth leg between an appointment
and a confirmation. I I don't think that
the Trump administration is going to be
okay with that. I think there's going to
be a lot of pressure on the Senate to
appoint and confirm that new chairman uh
trying to speed this up. Jay Powell can
stay as as a governor. His term goes
until 2026. He'd be the first chairman
since Eckles to do that. Uh I still
think that there'll be some kind of
desire for him to step aside at some
point. Uh but I think the real question
is when does the chair actually get
confirmed by the Senate.
>> So let's look at who potentially is
going to become the chair. Obviously
right now all arrows are pointing
towards Kevin Hasset. I'm sure you've
seen the reporting. I'd love to
understand how you are reading these tea
leaves. Do you think the bond market or
at minimum bond investors that the
Treasury Department is talking to will
get a vote?
Um I think what we will see is the
market will always test a new Fed share.
Um what I have been viewing is you know
we got this leak about a week or so ago.
The market reacted okay to that. Uh now
a conversation about oh uh Bessant could
be the NEC cheer. It's another trial
balloon and Marie to see whether or not
there is a negative or kind of muted
market reaction. the more muted the
market reaction is to this drip drip
drip, the more chance and the higher
probability it is that it is going to be
hassid. Um, if there were kind of a big
negative reaction, I think that could be
what spooks President Trump and maybe
pulls back. Uh, but I think that these
stories that are coming out are only
positive for his candidacy at this time.
>> Ed Mills of Raymond James, thank you so
much. And I would ask Nila how much from
an economic perspective rate cuts will
actually do when it comes to uh dealing
with some of these affordability issues
because we're talking about this as
though it's the silver bullet. And I
just wonder is it that? Is it $2,000
checks? Is it something else? What
exactly is going to do the trick?
>> You know, traditionally the way that the
Fed policy hit Main Street, including a
rate cut, is through the housing market.
And that I think it's agreeable housing
has become expensive in the United
States. and that channel for lowincome
households isn't there in the same way,
especially for young people. We're
seeing the average age as a of a
homeowner creep up because it takes much
more equity to put down on a house now
than it used to. And rates are higher
than uh we enjoyed in the early part of
or the late part of the 2000s. So, we're
having this conflation of demographics.
There's a lot of people who want to buy
and not enough housing stock. This is a
chronic problem. So that channel is shut
down. So to your question, one of the
key channels of Fed policy into Main
Street isn't really working that well.
Now there are other channels. There are
other ways to get to that lowincome,
middle inome consumer. But it has to be
much more deliberate than it has been in
the past because we don't have the
housing answer. That is an easy story
for wealth creation in the United States
the way it was perhaps in the '90s. But
because there's such an emphasis on this
from the Trump administration, this is
what the Financial Times report was
talking about. Kevin Hasset will do what
Trump wants him to do. I know that Ed
Mills thinks that some of this trial
balloon, the rhetoric hasn't been too
bad for Kevin Hasset. I would agree. I
would disagree. No one wants to get
trust, said one market participant who
was asked about this. Another one said,
I think the market sees him as a Trump
stoogge which erodess the Fed's cred
credibility at the margin. This is not
the rhetoric you want from Wall Street
going into one of the most important
jobs in financial in the entire
financial industry in the world
>> which is the reason why I think people
are watching the market response in a
significant way. Right now what we are
seeing is yields just creeping higher
but they have been uh inflecting lower
on the heels of some of this discussion.
Yesterday was the worst day for the
dollar dollar weakening going back seven
weeks. Currently the Bloomberg dollar
spot index the lowest levels going back
to October. Coming up, Angela Zenino of
CFRA as with Nvidia faces big questions
around China.
Futures rolling over as a session grows
older and it is across the board. In
fact, even the Russell 2000, which had
been outperforming over the past three
sessions, seeing a dip of about a tenth
of a percent uh in pre-market trading,
you could see the NASDAQ also lower. S&P
futures basically flat. The Y can be
found in the bond space. Yields creeping
higher with now the price of an expected
rate cut next week. Coming in now at
92%. Sounds like it's pretty high, but
it was up 98% yesterday. This is where
we're at. Meanwhile, the dollar building
on its weakening trend. The euro gaining
116 versus the dollar after yesterday.
We saw the biggest day of dollar
weakening going back 7 weeks to the
lowest level versus the euro going back
to October 28th. 3 hours away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers
with Danny Ber. Danny, hey Lisa, some
tech earnings to go through this
morning. Starting with Salesforce, those
shares are up 1.6%
in the pre-market trade. There had been
this big concern going into it. TD Cowan
talked about this essentially that AI
adoption isn't picking up. People are
kind of confused on how to use it.
Instead, what we got from Salesforce was
a beat, a better forecast than expected
because of AI adoption. So, at least for
now, they've kind of sued those
concerns. On the other side of things
though, we also had snowflake earnings
that the AI adoption wasn't as good as
people thought and there's this concern
about competition. So, you can see at
the bottom there, shares are getting
hammered down 8 and a half%. Finally, we
got sales figures from Costco as well.
We're going to get their full earnings
come December 11th, but another little
sneak peek into the consumer and it was
a miss for them. Uh shares moving down
1% this morning. The issue was North
American sales, US sales were actually
the worst spot internationally. They did
a little bit better. Uh so what does
that mean for a company that you know is
a bargain hunting company not having
people go to it and for what it's worth?
Costco has un underperformed all year
basically flat year to date. Lisa, thank
you so much Danny. And yeah, coming up
later this hour we do get Dollar General
earnings. So I'm sure we'll parse
through is it good news? Is it bad news?
Is bad news. Bad news is good news. Bad
news. We'll be all discussing that which
I'm sure you're very excited about.
Honorator this morning, concerns
mounting over Kevin Hasset's potential
appointment as Fed chair. PJM's Gregory
Peters suggesting that even if approved,
Hasset lacks the credibility needed to
deliver the rapid rate cuts desired by
President Donald Trump. Emory have been
talking about the story and I have to
wonder how much this is exactly what
President Trump wants for us to focus on
this and not some of the other questions
that are sort of swirling about
affordability and policy. Well, he
definitely does love to talk about the
Federal Reserve and even when it came to
the Treasury Secretary, this is very
similar to potential trial balloons.
Everyone is obsessed with looking at
what's going on in poly market and some
of the betting markets of who's maybe
rising in the ranks. The issue the
administration does have is there is an
issue with affordability, which is why
they themselves made U-turns when it
comes to tariffs on certain agricultural
products. It is why this morning Axios
is talking about the fact that the
president is going to be hitting states
a domestic tour starting next week in
Pennsylvania because ahead of the
midterm elections, Americans are not
feeling it. And what they risk doing is
talking about affordability, saying,
"No, no, no, you're fine." The way the
Biden administration did when inflation
was sky-high and it wasn't resonating
with the American public.
>> Nila, we've seen negative job creation.
We've seen the lowest print that we saw
in the ADP yesterday going back to March
of 2023. At the same time that yesterday
Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler was saying
that it's a lagging indicator that
actually when you look forward early
next year we're going to look at this as
the trough and actually going to start
to see some job creation. Are you seeing
any signs of that and is it predicated
in the idea that the Fed will cut rates
more aggressively?
>> Let me break that down a little bit and
I want to return to this question of
affordability. First of all, we put in a
weekly uh employment poll. So we hope to
be at least concurrent with what's going
on in real time. This is as real time as
the labor market and payroll gets uh
putting out this ADP uh employment pulse
every single week. So, we hope to
capture that moment. But let's talk
about affordability when it comes to the
overall price level because while the
politicians are concerned with the
inflation rate, the people on Main
Street are concerned with the fact that
inflation has gone up about 25% over the
last 5 years. In a normal 5-year period,
inflation cumulative is under 10%. So,
it's not really about the month-to-month
increases when you're at in Main Street.
It's the fact that price levels have
gone up across the board over the last 5
years very quickly. And that's what
people are responding to. And so this
machinations back and forth about how do
we get, you know, a couple bits here or
there to help with the overall inflation
story doesn't resonate when you're
looking at a consumer who's thinking
about what prices were 5 years ago
versus now.
>> So that may affect sentiment, but
they're still buying and we're going to
see that. And uh we were talking about
that with respect to Dollar Tree
yesterday. Maybe we'll see that in
Dollar General today. We also get
Kroger's. People are still buying the
items. So I just wonder, is this just a
deacto reality? no matter who's in
office. And this is just going to take
time, maybe two years, maybe three years
before it works out.
>> That's the uncomfortable truth. Some of
this is structural. It can't be fixed
overnight. It can't be fixed with a
basis point cut here or there. It really
has to be a long-term trajectory that
includes productivity increases that
lowers the price level. So, investing in
things that are productive, productive,
and stimulative will eventually help the
American consumer, but it's going to
take a while. We're all leveraged to AI
and the hopes and dreams of
productivity. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessett, meanwhile, could be taking on a
dual role as NEC director. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that top
Trump aids are weighing the move as the
president continues hinting that Kevin
Hasset may become the next Fed chair.
Meanwhile, Meta poaching, one of Apple's
top design executives, sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that Allan Dy, who
has served as the head of Apple's user
interface team since 2015, will take
over Meta's AI integration. This to me
is really interesting and we can get
into that in just one second. Uh but
just quickly here the race for AI talent
just off the charts.
>> It's unbelievable and Meta keeps
winning. It's an absolute coup for them
and it's an exodus almost it feels like
out of Apple into Meta. And what this
individual did at Apple basically says
that Meta is very interested in getting
more deeper integration with AI and into
hardware.
>> Yeah. And the idea of maybe the glasses
that we're all going to be wearing that
will tell us what to say. Nvidia,
meanwhile, nearing a congressional win.
>> Going toe-to-toe against anyone, the
American technology industry has nothing
to fear. As you know, at the moment,
Nvidia has been banned from going to
China. Not to mention, China has banned
Nvidia going to China. In the case of
China,
um, we shouldn't concede the entire
market to them. They're formidable, but
conceding that entire market, uh, we
ought to go compete for it. US lawmakers
rejecting a bid to curb chip exports,
clearing a hurdle for the chip makers
looking to sell in China. Joining us now
is Matt Block, Matt Bloxom of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Matt, if you build it,
will they come? If some of the US tech
providers can sell the more advanced
chips into China, will they buy them?
>> Uh, I think they will. Yeah. whether
it's through the front door or the back
door. You know, I think there's going to
be a lot of that technology going to the
market because the reality is that even
though Huawei, one of their big local
suppliers, has been making big
improvements in the technology, it's
still a long way behind where Nvidia is.
And you as much as uh some of the local
um technology companies like Alibaba um
are kind of leveraging the technology
they have, I think they would love to
get their hands on the most advanced kit
to uh accelerate what they're doing
>> going forward. Just how intense is this
race getting? We were talking about
Apple losing one of its senior members
to Meta. We've talked about the idea
that Amazon's trying to expedite their
chip production. Is this a new phase of
the AI race where it's all about
competition and less about just
investing as much as you possibly can?
>> Yeah, I think it's a new phase. I I
don't think the the competition for in
investing in as much as you can has
stopped either. So, it's just an extra
layer on top of that. But yeah, for sure
um as Amry was saying, you know, Meta's
been getting the checkbook out for quite
some time now to bring in the biggest
talent. So far, Apple's kind of held
firm on its kind of um compensation
policy. So, it's been limited to kind of
compete back. And I think is confident
that the Apple brand can bring in the
right kind of talent they need. But
yeah, you know, we're starting to see AI
uh extend into kind of new areas. This
hardware integration, that's not just a
US thing. It's also a China thing. Um,
and that's going to, yeah, there's only
so many AI experts out there and
engineers out there. So, I think that's
a big opportunity for younger people out
there watching that, you know, if you
want to kind of have a a really good
career, you want to think hard about
having AI engineering and software
skills on your CV. For sure.
>> Matt, thanks so much for being with us.
And I'm sure the PSA was heard very
loudly uh across uh across schools in
America, certainly and globally. Matt
Liplo of Bloomberg Intelligence. Thank
you. Joining us now, Angela Zeno of
CFRA. Angelo, uh, to just sort of build
on the discussion of the new phase of
the AI buildout, do you think that we're
going to start to see a period of not
only winners, but also true losers, both
when it comes to prospects as well as
stock valuation?
>> Um, I I think when when you look at how
this market is reacting right now, and
it's one where, you know, it's really
it's really interesting because um, you
you've got these these narratives that
continue to change where everyone's
looking to see who that winner is. I do
al do think ultimately you're going to
see, you know, a list of winners and a
list of non-winners, potentially losers
within the the overall tech space and AI
ecosystem. And um I think we're still
trying to sort out exactly who that, you
know, who those winners and losers are.
We've got a really good understanding of
of what that looks like on the
infrastructure side. And um I think
we've got less of an understanding of
what that looks like still on the
software side of things. But as far as
kind of this next phase that we're
building out on, I mean, we do think
we're kind of moving from a phase over
the last three years where it was one
where listen, all you had to do was
announce maybe some some large, you
know, partnership or deal with with an
open AI or an Nvidia or what have you
and your stock kind of, you know, really
just popped. Whereas we're now moving to
this new phase where it is more based on
execution. On the infrastructure side,
it is, you know, who who can build, you
know, those data centers out and
actually execute. On the devices side,
it's who's going to come out with the
best devices. And on the software side
of things, it's who's going to come out
with those best capabilities um that the
enterprise space is actually going to
want and can actually be monetized.
>> Angelo though, is the appetite there?
I'm look thinking about the information
report yesterday on Microsoft talking
about now there's lower expectation for
getting businesses to sign up for some
of these AI tools and things like
agents.
I think there I think there's an
appetite. I think the way it we're
looking at things right now is listen
the consumer has really adopted AI at
this point in time. You look at numbers
from the alphabets of the world and
they're probably the best indication of
how much the consumer has really um
adopted AI and you're talking about, you
know, token generated 1.3 quadrillion um
you know the most recent numbers out
there in October and it's really been
kind of this hockey stick parabolic move
in terms of tokens generated on the
consumer side. It's been really um a slo
on the on the enterprise side of things
and not necessarily a surprise because
the when it we see these new technology
inflections, the consumer always adopts
first and on the enterprise side of
things, it really takes a while. When
you look at for instance Salesforce's
results last night, um I thought they
were actually really good and I I think
the the momentum we saw on Asian Force
just on a sequential basis was
phenomenal. Uh but you know the the
issue is you can win these bookings but
but by the time you know these actual
enterprises go into pilot production and
then actually start ramping and adopt
adopting these AI agents it can take you
know several more quarters and we may
not see that till you know later in 2026
and 27.
>> Angela I'd like to go back to the
consumer because I'm always struck with
the adoption rate with the consumer but
there is a difference between what the
consumer will use and what the consumer
will pay for. Do you see that difference
showing up in terms of what the next
steps are in terms of the digital
adoption versus the hardware?
>> Yeah, I mean listen, I I think that's a
great point and again when when we start
thinking about the whole monetization
debate and what have you, I mean consu
the reason consumers adopt this stuff um
you know early on is because it's free,
right? I mean they're willing to kind of
go out there um try these new offerings
um these AI tools because it is free to
them. As far as paid services is
concerned, um you know, again, we're not
seeing the type of monetization level
that maybe I think some on the street
would hope to have seen. Um there are
definitely power users um on the consu,
you know, on a consumer front, but um
you know, in terms of scaling and
actually monetizing the AI services on a
consumer front, um you we're still not
quite there at this point,
>> right? So, so what would be the pricing
model that gets the consumer engaged
with their pocketbooks, especially a
consumer that's used to getting digital
goods for free? How do you change that,
monetize that?
>> You know, I I think that's a great
question and, you know, I I think it
depends on the actual, you know,
platform we're talking about and and you
know, and how this all adopts. I think
right now when you look at the
monetization at least on the consumer
side of things and maybe how um you know
maybe not the consumer itself but how
the consu we're actually monetizing the
consumer still in terms of digital
advertising right um and that's how you
know the alphabets and metas of the
world are really benefiting from all of
this but as far as the consumer
themselves and shelling out the dollars
at this point in time I think it it it's
all about continuing to find new use
cases for AI and finding something that
really is gamechanging for them where
they're willing to pay for it. But um at
this point in time um again it becomes
difficult especially in a in a more
challenging macro outlook to really get
the consumer to to really pay up for
these services. I think it gets
interesting as we start thinking about
new devices um especially as Apple
starts rolling out um on their you know
in terms of their AI ambitions what some
of these developers are going to be able
to do with kind of AI capabilities in
their hands and some of those uh you
know powered apps that we're going to be
able to see um go out to the consumer
potentially late next year into 2027.
Angela Zenino CFR research. Thank you so
much. And Neil's point is exactly the
point that you were talking about with
Amazon or excuse me, Microsoft
yesterday, the rumors that potentially
they were lowering the quotas for their
salespeople because people were not
actually being able to sell all of the
AI embedded tools that they've been
trying to. That's part part of the
problem, not the fact that I mean people
were going back against this report
saying it's not that there isn't the
appetite there for this. Angela's point
though is going to be more is
interesting when it comes to AI and the
consumer. the appetite might be there
when it actually translates into
hardware and it's something that you
just can't live without like an iPhone
>> and it matters for the economy too
because how do you measure the benefit
of these technological advancements if
people aren't spending money on them um
it's hard to measure even though they
could be productivity enhancing we can't
pick it up in our GDP we can't pick it
up in our output per worker and so is it
measurably making a difference well not
where we can see it
>> yeah or is it a solution in search of a
problem, which is what some people have
uh s suggested. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with Yahara Anna
and Dehyra.
>> Hi, Lisa. Hong Kong has ordered all
buildings undergoing major repair work
to immediately remove exterior
scaffolding nets. The move comes as
authorities investigate suspicions of
forged safety certifications after a
building fire last week killed at least
159 people. Officials earlier said the
rapid spread of the fire was linked to
substandard scaffolding nets and the use
of styrofoam boards. Meanwhile,
President Donald Trump saying his
special envoy Steve Witov had a quote
very good meeting with Russian President
Vladimir Putin. Speaking in the Oval
Office yesterday, the president
described the talks as very useful, but
without a breakthrough on some of its
demands around territory and Ukraine's
bid to join NATO. Discussions continue
today with a Ukrainian negotiator in
Miami. And Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong says
says he's not sure if China would accept
the company's H200 AI chips if the US
relaxes restrictions on sales of the
processors. Earlier this year, the chip
giant won approval to sell its less
powerful H20 chip in Beijing. But China
promptly told potential domestic
customers to shun the product and rely
instead on processors made by Chinese
companies like Huawei. That's Bloomberg
brief. Lisa, thank you so much. Yhierra,
up next, Kevin Hassid's credibility.
>> Does he have the credibility within the
committee to drive consensus? You have
to have the confidence of the committee
to drive consensus. And I don't know if
he has it.
>> Terry Wisman of McQuary joins us next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Traders are a little bit lost without
all of the economic data that's coming
out this morning. Uh sort of fluctuating
between gains and losses after two days
of gains. A real question of what's
going to drive sentiment going forward.
Basically flatten SEP futures.
Continuing to see dollar weakening after
yesterday seeing the biggest day of
dollar weakness going back to October
28th versus the euro. Meanwhile, yields
inflecting higher. Perhaps this is a
reason why you're not getting direction.
Not a clear sense from the Federal
Reserve. Let's stay there. Under
surveillance this morning, Kevin
Hasset's credibility.
On one hand, you have the Fed
independence question uh you know with
Hasset as you know basically tied to the
administration but on the other does he
have the credibility within the
committee to drive consensus? Uh and so
we don't know that answer. I don't think
he has that credibility. I think that's
what the bond market is telling you. You
have to have the confidence of the
committee to drive consensus and I don't
know if he has it.
>> Here's the latest. Wall Street beginning
to push back on the potential
appointment of NEC director Kevin Hassid
as the next Fed chair over fears he'll
aggressively cut rates or fail to get
committee consensus to do so. Terry
Weisman of McQuary saying a steeper
curve via either a bull or bear
steepening is the expected outcome of
that narrative that shifts toward a
structurally more dovish Fed. Terry
joins us now. Terry, thank you so much
for being here.
>> My pleasure, Lisa.
>> Are we already seeing this a little bit
in some of the market pricing with
respect to the dollar if not necessarily
the yield curve shape? Yeah. Well, I
would I would argue we've already seen a
little bit of it with the yield curve
shape in the last few sessions. We've
seen the spread between twos and tens
widen a little bit. Now, granted, it's a
it's a small widening in the context of
a of a spread that can vary by uh many
basis points over time, but I think uh
it's not a coincidence that it came upon
the announcement or the rumor, if you
will, that Kevin Hasset will be at some
point becoming the uh the Fed's chair.
With respect to the dollar, yes, of
course. uh anything that would tend to
make the Fed structurally more dovish
and by that I mean that they could
implicitly or explicitly change their
inflation target make it higher would
tend to be associated with a weaker
dollar. Of course you do not want to
hold certainly not nominal US assets in
the context of a structurally higher
inflation trend over the next few years
if we get a structurally more dovish
Federal Reserve. A lot of questions
around whether or not Kevin Hasset is
credible, but individuals would say that
Scott Besset is more credible to the
financial markets even though he is just
as closer, maybe even closer to the
president of the United States. Why?
>> Well, I think he's more credible because
he has been a risk manager, a risk
taker. Anyone who's in the in the
markets and is and is managing a hedge
fund uh is is hyperfocused on risk. And
risk can come from many places. It
doesn't have to come merely from um you
know, the business cycle. It could come
just, you know, just from from uh um the
rumor mill, right? Something comes out
and and and and someone says something
that's improper or at variance with the
way the markets are thinking and all of
a sudden markets change and things
repric. And I think when you have
someone that comes from the markets,
that person will be extremely attentive
to the idea that they should not uh make
uh comments offhand that are advance to
what the market's think because they
don't want to move the market. And I
think that's the kind of thing that
people associate with someone from the
markets. Uh a Scott Besson would be
associated with that way of thinking. Uh
at the same time, I don't like to think
of credibility as something that's
binary, right? It's a spectrum. Uh and
that doesn't mean so that means that,
you know, there conceivably could have
been uh nominees that would have been a
lot less credible um um than Kevin
Hasset. So So it's not as if we have
someone who is perfectly credible or
perfectly noncredible. We have someone
in between. I would also venture that
there were conceivably some candidates
that were on that short list that would
have been more credible. I think Chris
Waller would have been more credible.
Not because he's any less dovish, let's
say, at this at the moment than uh uh a
Kevin Hasset, but because he has a
record of publications in the academic
space that speak to Fed independence. We
don't have that from Kevin Hasset. Plus,
he is a White House insider. And I think
the combination of those things puts him
somewhere in the middle of that credible
to noncredible uh range.
>> Well, it's not a done deal yet. Do you
think the rhetoric and some of the
market reaction can actually derail his
appointment?
>> I think if we were dealing with another
administration potentially, but this is
the kind of administration that that
presses in uh that tries to hold its
ground as long as possible. I think the
fact that um and maybe this is
unfortunate, but the the president has a
way of um of auguring what he wants to
do by way of the comments he makes about
this is a potential Fed nominee. This is
my man. This is the guy I like. And once
that happens, it's a little bit harder
to turn back without that loss of
credibility for the administration. So,
I think that uh I think I think we're
we're we're a train here barreling
towards uh a Kevin Hasset uh nomination.
Now, of course, it's not necessarily a
nomination that will be into the Fed
chairmanship immediately. It might be a
nomination that takes um that that
replaces Steven Meyer when his term uh
uh ends in February and then you elevate
uh maybe Kevin Hasset to the
chairmanship. Uh and maybe that gives
you a little bit of of of flex there,
right? because maybe once he's in that
uh sitting on the board, he doesn't, you
know, and something goes wrong, let's
say, or he loses more credibility, uh
then maybe the president doesn't have to
uh elevate him, uh and maybe has that
out. Uh but look, it looks like things
are are moving in the direction of him
being the chair ultimately.
>> Terry Weisman, thank you so much.
McQuary, great to be here. Neil, do you
think the Fed should cut rates based on
what we're seeing from economic data and
some of the earnings that are coming
out? Dollar General, the latest to
perform better than expected. I think
we're in a metal middle and that's why
the consensus building at the Fed is so
important. Look, you have an inflation
rate that is not close to target. It's
come down a lot, but it's been above
target for four years and by the Fed's
own projections, it's likely to stay
above target for the next two years. And
then you have a labor market that is
weakening but not weak. You know, during
the Great Recession, I always say this,
unemployment rate was above 7% for three
years. So what we need is for experts to
come together and form a consensus and a
leader that can drive that.
>> Nila Richardson, thank you so much.
Wonderful to have you today on set.
Coming up next hour, we've got Lisa
Shallot of Morgan Stanley, Edm Mills of
Raymond James, Binky Chada of Deutsche
Bank, and Sal Desai of Franklin
Templeton fixed income from New York.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
It's a cyclical slowdown in the economy.
There is some optimism to come as we go
into next year.
>> Things are confusing and you can see
that within the debate within the FOMC.
The
>> fed rate cut is the right thing and I
think we'll get it. We actually think
that 2026 is going to see a few more
cuts.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Futures sort of trying to
rally for a third straight day, trying
to get some optimism about growth that
can outweigh fears about high tech
valuations. Labor market data,
meanwhile, next up with Challenger job
cuts and claims on deck with traders
pricing in more Fed rate cuts and
earnings continuing to trickle in. HP
Enterprise, docuign due after the bell.
But we are seeing right now Dollar
General coming out just moments ago.
This is an discount retailer and Amory,
the actual results were better than
expected. Is this good news or bad news
for the consumer?
>> Well, I think it's good news in the
sense that the American consumer is
going out and spending. They are
expanding what could be potentially read
into the broader market is it's bad news
because this mean that more individuals
on the higher end or middle are trading
down to find deals because they are
being pinched ever more. So, a lot of
Americans live paycheck to paycheck.
Yesterday, Muhammad Alian was talking
about this on X. He was saying that the
US consumer remains an engine of the
growth economy. Even those concerns
about the labor market, he put in all
caps, very Trump, impressive consumer
resilience. And that's what we've seen
time and time again after all these
warnings.
>> Yeah. Dollar General coming out is
seeing comp sales increasing more than
expected, raising fullear forecast,
talking about real estate expansion as
it tries to cater to more consumers. On
a broader level, the jobs picture has
been really muddled. What we got from
ADP yesterday was the biggest
contraction going back to March of 2023.
We get challenger job cuts in at less
than a half an hour time. Then of course
we get uh jobless claims. At what point
do we get enough information to
understand whether this is a labor
market in decline that coheres with an
economy that can't keep up down the line
or is it something we can shrug off?
It's the new deer and next year we'll
see the turnaround potentially. I mean
this administration certainly wants to
see the turnaround next year and we will
get a lot of fiscal impulse next year
when the one big beautiful bill starts
to get digested through the economy.
Maybe there's going to be $2,000 checks
that might be an issue for the inflation
front. uh the other mandate for this
Federal Reserve. The issue right now is
that we still are in I don't know if
it's going to say a data desert anymore
after the government shutdown, but it
certainly is foggy. We are getting
second and third tier data. But we do
not have a true picture when it comes to
the labor market because we are not
getting the next BLS jobs report
non-farm payrolls until after the
Federal Reserve meets. So by the end of
the year, we probably have a better
picture, but we're not going to have one
before the Federal Reserve meets next
week. with that incredibly clear
picture. It's the reason why there isn't
a lot of market direction. Although
today trying to shoot a little bit
higher after two consecutive days of
gains led by the Russell 2000.
Interestingly enough, this morning
basically the same across the board. S&P
futures up now almost a tenth of a
percent. You're seeing uh NASDAQ futures
positive as well. Yields inflecting
higher. Watch this space. Even after a
better thanex expected Japanese 30-year
bond auction, you're still seeing longer
and uh yields in the United States climb
up about two basis points to 4.08%
and dollar weakness. This has been the
market aspect of market activity getting
to its weakest level going back to
October and building on that this
morning with the euro higher 11679.
Coming up this hour, we are so pleased
to say Lisa Shallot of Morgan Stanley
Wealth Management is Wall Street presses
pause. Vicki Chada of Deutsche Bank with
a 2026 S&P target of 8,000 and Sal Desai
of Franklin Templeton as the Fed eyes a
fresh read on the labor market. We begin
this hour with stocks really looking for
direction as the potential for a
year-end rally is kind of hanging out
there. Lisa Shallot of Morgan Stanley
Wealth Management writing 2026 is apt to
be a bumpier ride where idiosyncratic
navigation execution produce winners and
losers and demand a much higher degree
of picking and choosing. Lisa joins us
now for more. Lisa, wonderful to see
you. Thank you so much for being here.
>> Absolutely. Always great to see you.
>> I want to go back to the point that Jim
Zelter of Apollo made earlier this week
where he said the bond markets and stock
markets are in conflict right now. You
can't have your cake and eat it too. You
can't have bond markets expecting Fed
rate cuts and stock markets pricing in
robust and accelerating growth. Do you
agree? I absolutely agree. And and you
know, our sense is as is very often the
case um the bond market may have it
right here. Uh and what I mean by that
is I think the bond market is sniffing
out this idea uh that there is likely to
be a dovish bias at the Fed, right?
Which means um you know kind of running
it hot, running the economy hot uh but
that ultimately this is a potential
inflation risk and it's why we see a
much steeper curve. that steeper curve
and that 10-year yield hanging up in
there uh we fundamentally believe
ultimately becomes a headwind for equity
market multiples. Um you know what has
kept uh the stock market going? Yes,
it's been earnings but it has been a
heavy dose of multiple expansion and we
really think that that multiple
expansion game ends in 2026 in a big
way.
>> Do higher yields pose a bigger headwind
to tech or to the rest of the universe?
Uh that's so that's interesting. I think
uh it it it's really bifurcated. I think
that the the steepening of rates on the
long end is going to be hard for the
long duration assets. That's tech.
That's secular growth. That's what has
been leadership in the market. Um I
think to the extent that that the front
end actually may go lower than we
originally thought probably a little bit
better for cyclicals. So you have an
equity market that broadens and rotates
a little bit. For us, that means that
this is an index that in aggregate may
have moderate gains next year. So uh
unlike my colleague Mike Wilson who's
kind of banging the table and and saying
we've got 15 to 20% upside in next
year's market, uh our global investment
committee is a little bit more measured.
We're saying, you know, hey, something
closer to 10. Uh because we think that,
you know, you're going to kind of stall
out on those long duration assets. maybe
those short cycle cyclicals and and
small caps, you know, kind of, you know,
balance it out, but it's about rotation
and so the aggregate index struggles a
little bit.
>> So, this will be good for potentially
the housing market and potentially for
smaller businesses.
>> So, absolutely not the housing market,
right? Housing market, remember, um
that's that's all about the mortgage
rate. And our best guess is with that
steepening, uh those mortgage rates are
going to hang in there. I mean, one of
the things that's been pretty
provocative is if you look at it, um,
really in the last month, in the month
of November, the 2's30s has actually
steepened by about 25 basis points.
Since the beginning of the year, that
2's 30s is 125 basis points steeper. Um,
and so that 30 is hanging out there. And
that's all about debts and deficits.
It's all about the longer term financing
dynamics around the US debt uh and the
crowding out uh and so we we really are
not ready to to dive into housing
>> spell for the US consumer.
>> So the US consumer um I also think is is
going to struggle a little bit. We've
been in the camp that says one of the
reasons you're seeing um this resilience
is people are spending their their tax
cut. Yes. Are they going to get the
refund check uh in Febru from February
to April? Yes, they've known about that
since July. Um the actual savings rates
are now well below 5%. We've seen um
credit cards uh growing at 8%. Right?
That's two times nominal income growth.
Right? So people are taking on credit.
One of the most interesting uh stats
over the weekend while folks were
talking about uh you know a resilient
you know uh Christmas season uh is how
much is buy now pay later right so you
know the the aggregate um retail sales
looking up four to 5% buy now pay later
is growing at 10 and a half
>> what I'm struck by is that you sound
somewhat negative you saying think that
there is going to be some sort of
comeuppance of this rapid growth without
really uh partic participation from the
consumer in a more meaningful way and
that there will be a greater degree of
inflation. You still see 10% gains on
the S&P 500. What gives? Why? Because
fundamentally, if you look at the
composition of the S&P 500 index, um the
earnings power next year is probably
going to be able to deliver 10 to 12%
earnings growth. um even if you just
look at some of the tech companies and
what some of the leadership has been uh
that's a below consensus forecast right
so that's why I may sound a bit more uh
moderate but there is earnings power in
this market um our our fundamental
thought though is that you're going to
have rotation and where that comes from
>> do you think that we're seeing the start
of that right now there's been a lot of
concern about tech and what we're seeing
in terms of the competitive landscape we
saw the report yesterday get a lot of
attention from Microsoft
that some of the sales people are having
a tough time selling AI at the prices
that they previously had put on. Are you
seeing this as being a real headwind in
a way of potential potholes in big
players at least this year in the rally?
>> 100%. I mean, we've been talking about
this the last 90 days that MAG7 Gen AI
capback story has fundamentally changed.
It's fundamentally shifted uh from a
simple story where you had cash and cash
flow from operations funding hyperscaler
investment uh in data center capacity
and now you've got a much broader
ecosystem. It's being debt financed.
You've got uh a whole host of reasonably
complicated um funding models some of
which smack of vendor financing. uh you
you have um you know Google and the and
the success of Gemini 3 um really
raising the question do you need GPUs
for everything? do you need, you know,
in Nvidia GPUs or are we going to move
very quickly as Google is suggesting
potentially to much more of an
appspecific
implementation in which case you can use
other ASIC chips, other semiconductors
uh and this TPU architecture that that
Google uh is talking about and it raises
the whole question of what is the
revenue model right for some of these
large language model providers um you
know open AI I likes to talk about 800
million subscribers or users. They have
11 million of those 800 are paying are
subscribing. Um that's a challenged
revenue model. You already hear this
week Sam Alman talking about
advertising. That didn't take long. Um
and as we know the minute you start
changing the experience for users um
there are implications. So, we think
we're at a real uh juncture here and
that the Gen AI story gets a lot more
complicated in terms of the stock
market. We've said uh from the beginning
in terms of the economy, we're probably
in the first inning of of diffusion of
the technology, but in terms of the
market's pricing, you know, the the the
revolution, we're in the sixth or
seventh.
>> So, would you want to be less exposed to
that story in 2026? Uh yes, we want to
be much much much more selective and the
market's starting to get it right. I
mean, the dispersion you're seeing
within the MAG 7 is pretty provocative,
right? So, you've got only two of the
MAG 7 are actually technically
outperforming the S&P 500 cap weighted
index year to date.
>> Well, I do wonder if also that means
that people aren't going to get paid as
much to get poached from one place to
another. I'm serious. I wonder how much
this has been the increase. No,
>> I think for the very very top the pay
will be there, but you're right. Maybe
some of those other engineers that at
one point, you know, they were signing
bonuses that you would for a base
professional baseball player or more.
Maybe that money is no longer
>> we can bring out the violin. Lisa Shalad
of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management I'm
so pleased to say is sticking with us
right now. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with your onra.
>> Hi Lisa. Pimpco pushing to the forefront
of US fixed income fund managers this
year. The company bet big on US bonds
despite the slew of sell America calls
that followed President Trump's
liberation day tariffs. Now the bond
giants two flagship offerings have
beaten the overall market and their
largest competitors. Be sure to catch an
exclusive interview with PIMCO CIO of
Core Strategies Moit Mattel today on
Bloomberg TV at 3:10 p.m. Eastern.
Meanwhile, another top executive is
leaving Apple. sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that Meta poached Apple's
most prominent design executive as the
social network accelerates a push
towards AI enabled consumer devices.
Alan Dy had run Apple's user interface
design team since 2015
and Democratic lawmakers are pressing
companies on their contributions to the
White House ballroom. According to the
Wall Street Journal, donations from
Nvidia, Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, and
Meta are under scrutiny on whether
contributions could lead to more
favorable treatment and potential quid
proquo arrangements. Dr. Bloomberg Reef,
Lisa, thank you so much, Yahara. Up
next, the market sending a warning. The
market has reacted since the betting
markets have, you know, raised the
probability last week. The bond market
has performed quite poorly. So the bond
market is telling you that there are
some concerns there.
>> We continue the conversation next with
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management CIO
Lisa Charlotte. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
Trying to stage a third consecutive
bounce. Can we get that Santa Claus
rally that people expect for December?
Right now, inflicting upward, but really
uh kind of rangebound, fluctuating
between gains and losses pretty much
across the board. Interesting that the
Russell 2000 is lagging behind this
morning with futures just slightly
negative after leading over the past
three sessions. A departure from what we
had seen over the first six months of
the year in the bond space. This is a
reason why there have been so many
fluctuations. How much can you get a
rally without bonds participating?
without the idea that the Fed is on
deck, ready to send some sort of bazooka
into the market as soon as it can. On
the front end, questions about the Fed
rate cut up about two basis points, 350
on the 2-year. On the long end, 30-year
yields rising in the US even though they
declined significantly in Japan based on
a highly successful 30-year bond
auction. A real question about a
decoupling perhaps in direction of those
two markets. And when you bleed it into
the currency space, dollar weakness
continues. The euro mounting some gains
despite some political uncertainty over
in Germany. Despite us waiting a vote in
France, you're still seeing 11678 on the
euro versus the dollar. The dollar at
the weakest level uh since October.
Under surveillance this morning, the
market sending a warning.
>> The market has reacted since since the
betting markets have you know raised the
probability last week. The bond market
has performed quite poorly. So the bond
market's telling you that there are some
concerns there. It's important to
remember that uh it's a full committee.
I think the Fed chair is just one
aspect. Uh I look for uh you know some
other structural changes uh on the come
from the Fed that actually wittleles the
independence even more.
>> Here's the latest Wall Street warning
the US Treasury about possibility uh
nominating Fed Chair Kevin Hasset as the
next leader of the US Central Bank. The
Financial Times reporting executives,
asset managers, and members of the
Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee
had expressed concerns over Fed
independence while vouching for other
candidates. Bloomberg's Mike Shepard
joins us now. Mike, is the concern that
the new Fed chair couldn't necessarily
wrangle the votes necessary or that the
new Fed chair could potentially erode
credibility in the international and
domestic sphere of independence between
the Fed and the executive branch?
Well, Lisa, in a way, it is actually
both of those questions. And we heard
Greg Peters, who is a member of that uh
Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee
himself, raising questions about whether
Kevin Hassid has the ability to forge
the kind of consensus that a Fed chair
needs to do as the Federal Open Market
Committee meets uh several times a year
to set interest rate policy. It can be
kind of messy behind closed doors and it
really requires that kind of persuasion
behind the scenes to get people aboard
to get members aboard in voting on a
policy move. But more broadly, there are
questions about what a Hasset
appointment might mean for central bank
independence. The very thing that
qualifies Hasset in Donald Trump's eyes
is his loyalty to the president's
economic agenda and his calls for rate
cuts. And what that raises in the eyes
of the bond market of course is whether
that means uh hasset might be inclined
to make interest rate cuts even when the
data on inflation are suggesting that
the central bank should pursue a
different course. Now it central bank
independence is a fundamental piece of
Fed credibility and it is something that
underpins uh what keeps rate premiums so
low across the market and that is
something else that investors are
looking at too. And this is interesting
because we are also seeing not only
Hasset as the front runner, but we are
seeing a somewhat long lead time between
Trump indicating that he may be down to
one candidate and yet waiting until
early next year to actually make an
announcement. So there may be time for
the administration to kind of weigh the
impact of this uh of the possibility of
a Hasset pick on the market and perhaps
change course. There's no indication
that he is doing so, but it is something
that we will have to watch to see how
this reaction from investors is playing
with the president and across the
administration.
>> Mike Shepard, thank you so much for that
of Bloomberg. Emory, we hear from Emil
Da on a daily basis. The longer this
drags on, the more likely it is that
Scott Bessant ends up taking the helm of
the Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah, potentially at some point. The
president just says, "I continuously ask
continuously ask you. I'm not happy with
any of the choices in front of me. I'm
going to need you to do this." Neil Duta
had a scathing review of what a chair
Kevin Hasset would look like yesterday
and basically saying not as good as
Waller, not as good as Bessant, and he
doesn't think ultimately that Trump will
end up picking his NEC director.
>> Morgan Stanley Wealth Management CIO
Lisa Shallot is still with us. And Lisa,
how much is this discussion really
setting up 2026 as a reminiscent year of
2025 in terms of fears of some sort of
loss of independence of the Federal
Reserve leading to weakening dollar,
potential fears of US dominance and
maybe some outflows at least in the
currency side of things.
>> I I absolutely think that that's what
part of this debate is about. But uh
interestingly, I think this is about the
market recognizing that almost
regardless who of who sits in that new
Fed chair seat, we're moving into this
era of fiscal dominance where the
constraints on an independent Fed are
just higher. We are in a structurally
higher inflation environment. We're in a
structurally higher debt environment.
The Treasury needs to finance. Um the
Treasury has signaled that they want you
know to finance on in bills on the ultra
front end of the curve. Um you know
there's unbelievable amounts of pressure
on the Fed to accommodate that. Uh I
think we we have to acknowledge you know
uh QT or quantitative tightening ended
on December 1st. It is highly likely
that as you know uh we move forward over
the next six months, we're now going to
be back into the era of stealth QE uh
because we're going to be reinvesting
the central bank portfolio proceeds into
the balance sheet. So, um, we're
actually at Morgan Stanley anticipating
that next year and for the next 3 years,
um, if if the current Fed policy, you
know, stays in place, we're going to be
absorbing about $250 billion per year
uh, of of Treasury supply.
>> When it comes to fiscal dominance and
inflation at 3%, how difficult is it
going to be for whether it's Kevin
Hassid or someone else to even convince
the whole board to continue cutting
interest rates? I so I think that one of
the first things that a new chair is
going to do uh is is going to be to
suggest we have a new framework. I mean
next year's Jackson
>> three becomes two
>> three is the new two.
>> So where does this leave the investment
thesis? Because ultimately I'm listening
to what you say and I think well if
you're expanding the balance sheet and
if you're lowering rates well stocks
look pretty good bonds can remain pretty
much rangebound regardless of your
concern about the fiscal deficit. the
dollar is going to get hit really hard.
At what point does that become the
deacto assumption?
>> I it so it's embedded in our assumption
that we are going to have a weaker
dollar. I know all my colleagues don't
necessarily share um that view. Uh but
fundamentally you know for us not only
does it mean inflation's a bit a bit
higher that overall rate long rates are
a bit higher but the key thing here is
that the efficacy of that 6040 portfolio
right goes down because both stocks and
bonds are positively correlated in that
environment. And so you've got to
diversify your portfolio. You've got to
own some real assets. You've got to own
international with this very weak
dollar. um you've got, you know, to
think about managing that volatility. Um
so potentially, you know, hedge funds
and and some alternatives.
>> At what point are yields so high that
they are punitive for overall multiples?
And I'm asking this about the 10-year
and the 30-year when does it start to
bite for overall risk sentiment in the
United States?
>> So it's really interesting. I don't
think that the market has fundamentally
fully digested in terms of multiples
that long run neutral is three to three
and a half to four. Um I think as we get
to that place mult the the the
mathematical justification
uh for price earnings multiples at if
you've got a neutral rate of three or
three 1/2 is actually closer to 17 18
we're 22 1/2 right so um I don't know
when that gets catalyzed u but if the
market really you know starts uh
aggregating around that view um that
that is the new neutral um uh we we
we're going to see pressure on
multiples.
>> Lisa Charlotte, wonderful to see you.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Absolutely. Lisa Charlotte of Morgan
Stanley Wealth Management and this
really is the key debate and I think it
is important to keep pointing out
actually what Lisa said uh Emory which
is that regardless of the administration
we're moving increasingly to this kind
of fiscal dominance just because of the
amount of deficit and questions
structurally about the unemployment and
just uh the overall economic diversion.
>> Right. next year fiscal. We get the one
big beautiful bill coming through. No
tax on tips, refunds. The
administration's talking about $2,000
checks going out to individuals. Um
potentially, even when it comes to
fiscal, there's going to be maybe some
tweaks when it comes to tariff policy.
And you're head of a midterm election.
They're going to do everything in their
power while they still have control of
the House, the Senate, and the White
House to make sure that the economy and
the consumer is feeling some sort of
economic optimism. And from the market
standpoint, is this good news or bad
news for risk assets and ultimately
that's where the debate comes in? Coming
up, someone who thinks it's very much
good news. Vicki Chada of Deutsche Bank
with a bullish 2026 outlook for the S&P
500. Plus, Jenny Burgerer with your
morning movers. Dollar General shares
rising almost 5% after topping third
quarter expectations. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
Stocks finding their ground a little bit
with some gains uh early in trading. Uh
building on the previous two days of
gains pretty much across the board. S&P
futures up now about a tenth of a
percent. You're seeing a similar gain on
the NASDAQ 100. Dollar weakness pervades
after yesterday seeing the biggest bout
of dollar weakening going back to
October 11677. Yields slightly higher
but off their earlier highs 4.07. 0768
rounded up to the nearest fourth decimal
point. Uh right now we are getting some
economic data and this to me really is
going to be telling. Challenger coming
out with their latest job cuts
announcement announcing more than 71,000
job cuts in November bringing the
year-to-ate total to nearly 1.2 million
uh in total. Just to give you a sense of
what the commentary is, look, this is
good news and this is bad news. On one
hand, these are fewer layoffs than we
saw in the prior reading. On the other
hand, job cuts in November have risen
above 70,000 only twice since 2008. In
2022 and in 2008 that is according to
Andy Challenger who is uh the chief
revenue officer for this company. This
to me is the concern when you start
talking Amarie about an analoges to 2008
and 2022. Not a great look.
>> Not a great look. And also this comes
after the ADP report yesterday. It'll be
interesting what we get from jobless
claims in the next hour. But all of this
basically cementing how the market feels
the Federal Reserve is going to act next
week. Even without the non-farm payrolls
report, the direction of travel right
now is showing some weakness in the
labor market.
>> And so we'll be checking how much
markets are responding. These data
points didn't necessarily have that much
gravitas in the months before. Now that
we're not getting the grand marquee type
of data like non-farm payrolls, it has a
different kind of meaning. 2 hours away
from the cash open, here are your
morning movers with Danny Burker. Danny.
Hey Lisa. may be continuing on the same
thing of trying to get a read of the
healthy economy. It's another discount
store that has another positive set of
results. Yesterday it was Dollar Tree.
Today it is Dollar General. Shares are
up nearly 5% with a boost to their
outlook. Um it's everything from
groceries to consumables to
non-consumables. They also because
groceries is a bigger part, they don't
face as much when it comes to tariff
costs. So overall a really positive set
of results. You can't say the same for
another consumer exposed brands and
that's Hormell. They make foods like
Skippy, like Spam. So, a lot of
prepackaged type foods. Um, the issue
for them is that their profitability has
been really hurt. Cost inflation has
really been eating into them. But the
CEO laying out plans to try to improve
some of that. And their fourth quarter,
all those fears were basically baked in
in the fourth quarter beat. So, that's
why you are seeing such a big rally.
Shares are up 6%. Finally, after the
bell yesterday, we also got earnings
from Salesforce. The concern with
Salesforce had been are people actually
using and paying for their AI agents on
the call and during the earnings the CEO
did lay out that that part of the
business is growing very very rapidly so
assuaging those fears for now shares
rally 1.6%. Lisa, thank you so much.
Danny, on our radar this morning, US
envoy Steve Whit said to me with a top
Ukrainian negotiator in Miami today to
continue peace talks. The president's
saying a meeting between Whit and
Russian leader Vladimir Putin was quote
reasonably good, but the outcome still
isn't clear. Meanwhile, the Wall Street
Journal reporting that Amazon is
preparing to expand its own delivery
network and cut ties with the US Postal
Service. Amazon serving as the top
customer for USPS, bringing in more than
$6 billion in revenue this year. And
Nvidia looking for a win on Capitol
Hill. People familiar with the matter
telling Bloomberg a bill limiting the
company's ability to sell advanced AI
chips to China will not be part of
upcoming defense legislation. A huge win
potentially for Nvidia. Absolutely.
They've been lobbying about this. They
really don't like any constraints. They
understand that potentially there needs
to be something like export controls,
but they don't like any constraints when
it comes to how they could export their
chips outside of the United States.
Yesterday also, Jensen Wong in
Washington DC said state-by-state AI
regulation would drag this industry into
a halt and it would create a national
security concern as we need to make sure
that the US advances AI technology as
quickly as possible. And he takes what
he says about artificial intelligence.
It was under Biden. It was the diffusion
role that was a problem for him. And all
of this he is talking to the president
of the United States about and probably
is the most important person in terms of
export controls or national security
issues when it comes to AI. He's
constantly talking his book. Well, this
to me is the ultimate question. At what
point is security concern equal to not
getting enough chips out into the rest
of the world and being dominant in the
technology? And how much is security
concern allowing China and other nations
that potentially are adversaries access
to some of the highest tech uh chips
that the United States is producing?
Well, the Financial Times also has a
scoop that basically this administration
wants to make sure that there are no
other issues hindering especially when
it comes to national security space even
sanctions uh that they were supposed to
have on some Chinese entities. There's
no hindrance when it comes to the trade
day tant that we've seen when President
Trump met with Xi Jinping in South
Korea.
>> Well, right now the market is trying to
grapple with what this all looks like.
Expectations for the new year. Rolling
in Binky Chada of Deutsche Bank with the
most bullish take out there, calling for
the S&P 500 to reach 8,000 by the end of
next year. Writing this in 2026, we see
robust earnings growth and equity
valuations remaining elevated. Binky
joins us now. Binky, good morning. Thank
you for being with us.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> What makes you so incredibly bullish
given what we're seeing right now, which
is that winners don't take all or they
might take all, but there still are a
lot of losers in the AI space that has
been driving a lot of the gains so far.
>> Sure. So, you know, I'm I'm not sure
that I would characterize my outlook as
being so bullish. Uh, we have 14%
earnings growth for next year. We had
14% earnings growth in the third
quarter. We're looking for about 14% in
the fourth quarter. So from an earnings
point of view, you know, it's not
unreasonable. Uh I would say if you
think about what average earnings growth
for the S&P 500 is outside of
recessions, it's 11%. So we've been
bobbing up and down basically around
that level for the last two two and a
half years. Um so moving up just a
little bit. Uh we were just a little bit
lower. So, uh I would argue it's just a
little bit higher. Uh a a we, you know,
in terms of the price outlook or the S&P
500 target, we don't do earnings and
valuation. We think valuation is more a
result. We do our price target on the
basis of our demand supply framework has
three elements basically. What is
existing equity money doing? Is there
new money coming in? And what's
happening on the supply side, which is
the buyback. So the buybacks are type
two earnings. So you're going to have
14% earnings growth. We're talking about
gross buybacks of about $1.4 trillion
next year. And that's with holding the
buyback payout ratio flat. If we go to
uh where I began, which is what is
existing equity money doing? Um a a
discretionary or fundamentalsbased uh
investors positioning is neutral to
slightly underweight. So in terms of the
risks that everybody is talking about, I
would say the fundamentals-based equity
investors are actually focused and
positioned for those risks. So I would
say that the wall of worry is really
high. Yeah.
>> You haven't mentioned the US economy or
the growth backdrop once a outlook is
for uh growth actually uh to pick up a
little bit. uh and that has to do with
uh some of the modalities basically of
the OBBA and if you believe that you
know people don't respond to the tax
rate until it's refund time and they see
their checks. Uh but that's sort of just
sort of the distribution. Um I would say
you know if I look at the last uh two
and a half years uh we're talking about
median GDP growth of uh 2.9% so let's
call it 3%. So that's pretty robust. Um
but I would say even bigger picture you
know keep in mind that for the last two
years the macro consensus has very
systematically
underestimated
macro growth and it's you know when
we're talking about trend growth of two
two and a half% if you underestimate by
1% for two and a half years that's kind
of a big number is the way I would put
it. So I would say the market the macro
consensus uh our economists a little bit
less so uh you know are still very much
focused on the risk. So the equity
market has to climb basically you know
the the the traditional wall of worry
and I think it's actually positioned for
that. Uh and so I mean you know if you
look at our positioning measures we are
sort of in the middle just going to the
top and the market actually getting
bullish from and positioning in a
bullish way. I mean it's 9% just from
here to the top. I mean if I look at
basically the buybacks you know they're
going to give you around 10 or 11% by
themselves. So you put those two things
together in a world where the new money
basically all asset classes are
benefiting from this big boom that has
its basically roots back in the pandemic
when households ended up with basically
way too much cash about $2.5 trillion in
excess of trend holdings. And so the
new, you know, form, new income and new
savings if you're already too overweight
cash, uh, it is going to go into
financial assets as long as the economy
is okay. Uh, and that's exactly what's
been happening. But it's been happening
for two years. And so the question is,
you know, you can look at a chart of uh,
household cash holdings relative to the
trend line. Uh, and it's sort of at 2028
levels already. So, uh, it's got some
room to
>> I feel like you're trying to convince
us, even though you have a very high
price target compared to your peers that
you're actually not that bullish. You
keep talking about this wall of worries.
What What's top of mind for risks of
2026?
>> So, you know, like I said, 11% earnings
growth is typical. I would say a S&P 500
uh, you know, price returns on average
historically are 11%. So, 14% is not
much higher than 11%. Uh, is the first
point that I would make. And I think
that you know uh uh one of the things
about that average sort of 11% return
this is not the way you do it I'm just
talking about you know few aspects of
historical returns uh I think the thing
to note is that basically uh if you take
uh uh all the years of positive returns
and
and and you say you know I'm going to
take the the years where the market was
really positive not sort of 0.1 or 1%.
So we have a cut off of 2%. If you break
the 2% threshold, uh the average price
return is actually 20%. So you could
argue, you know, that I'm rather
bearish. Okay?
>> And and what I would say is in terms of
thinking about next year, the first
known catalyst is Q4 earnings. They
start in the middle of January. So, I
think Q4 earnings are extremely
important and and we should focus on it
for a second because Q3 earnings came in
well better than expected and it's left
actual Q3 earnings above what the
consensus is for Q4. I it I think the
consensus is simply stale because it
implies we're going to have a severe
sequential contraction in earnings. So,
we're going to get either buybacks or
big beats. Here's the issue that I'm
having right now. The argument that
you're making is liquidity one. And it's
that this is a market with a lot of
liquidity still in it and looking to go
to work and that ultimately companies
have a lot of liquidity. The investor
has a lot of liquidity. Money market
funds just hit $8 trillion for the first
time ever. Is this essentially a central
bank that has held policy relatively
loose to the growth and isn't going to
take the punch bowl away. So, keep on
playing. uh I don't attribute much of it
basically to the Fed or central bank
policies. I would say it's really been
about you know the resilience of the US
economy which owes its roots back
basically to uh the global financial
crisis and the great deleveraging that
happened then uh a a and then of course
the pandemic. So you know we dealing
with the world where balance sheets are
just much much stronger. So the capacity
is much stronger. So the ability to you
know absorb and withstand shocks uh I is
just much better. I think we
overemphasize interest rates. I mean you
know after the global financial crisis
we had interest rates at zero for a very
prolonged period and you know the the
the textbook logic or the narrative
would be therefore you know everybody
was spending or things would have been
much worse. But the fact of the matter
is that uh you know for the entire
duration of that period of low interest
rates I I the household sector was
deleveraging and continued to do so and
and and in fact didn't stop until they
started raising rates. Okay. So the sign
is exactly wrong here. The simple point
I'm making is other things matter
besides interest rates. If you listen
to, you know, a number of banks in the
last quarter that, you know, is the
housing market going to come back and
and and and and and you know, as some
banks say, you don't think it's really
about interest rates because the 25
basis points here or there? And of
course it's the 10 year not the short
rate that matters but it's it's really
been about the uncertainty u the
uncertainty not just about you know uh u
macro policies but also about the labor
market and sort of where we are in the
cycle and all of the risks that uh we
all focused on.
>> Big cha thoughtprovoking. Thank you so
much uh for being with us. Spinky Chad
of Deutsche Bank who we categorized as
the biggest bull but he categorizes
perhaps is not bullish enough with his
8,000 call for the S&P 500. Right now
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your brief with
Yahira Antihira. Hi Lisa. Layoffs at US
companies rose over 23% in November
compared to last year. That's according
to data from Challenger Gray and
Christmas. That's the eighth month this
year where cuts came in higher
year-over-year. It also marks just the
third time since 2008 that November job
cuts exceeded 70,000. Overall layoff
plans did ease after surging in October,
but still came in at the highest for
November in 3 years. Meanwhile, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson says he will push
for a rule requiring candidates for
regional Fed presidencies to have lived
in that district for at least three
years. He says the rule may need
congressional approval or could be
implemented by the Fed chair and board.
Besson's campaigning for a sweeping
shakeup of the central bank, which he
accuses of straying from its core
mandate. And the Trump administration
will increase vetting of H1BB visa
applicants with instructions to reject
those involved in censorship of free
speech. Consular officers will review
applicants resumes, LinkedIn pages, and
trade publications for issues, including
complying with content moderation or
censorship demands from a foreign
entity. Dr. Bloomberg Reef, Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next, the
labor market in focus.
>> Doves, hawks seeming to be really at
odds right now, and they've got this
dual mandate, and they're going to argue
about it, but I, you know, inflation's
3%. That's way above their target. Uh,
but they're worried about employment.
Sel Desiah Franklin Templeton joins us
next. Right now in markets you do see
possibly a third day of rally. This is
Bloomberg surveillance. Good morning.
Right now, we're seeing a bit of gains
in pre-market trading pretty much across
the board, possibly building on two
straight gains. Are we going to see that
Santa Claus rally up to a tenth of a
percent on the S&P? Meanwhile, uh
currency space fluctuating after seeing
a lot of dollar weakening over the past
few sessions. Today, maybe reversing
just a touch and 10ear yields higher by
almost three basis points to 4.8 uh 4.08
uh84%. Under surveillance this morning,
the labor market in focus.
things are confusing and you can see
that within the debate within the FOMC
itself. Uh Doves, Hawks seeming to be
really at odds right now and they've got
this dual mandate and they're going to
argue about it. But I I inflation's 3%.
That's way above their target. Uh but
they're worried about employment. That's
all going to be in next week's meeting.
>> Here's the latest. Investors eyeing
jobless claims out in less than an hour
with the last official employment data
point the Fed will get ahead of its next
meeting next week. Sal Desai of Franklin
Templeton writing another Fed rate cut
next week seems to have been fully
discounted. This Fed has proven to be uh
very reluctant to disappoint markets.
Sel joins us now. Sol you've been saying
and thank you so much for being here
this morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> You've been saying that you think it's a
mistake that you don't think this is an
economy that requires another rate cut.
Why do you think the market hasn't
responded more negatively to the
likelihood that that is just what
they're going to get? I don't think
you're going to get a look, we're on the
borderline of what is and isn't uh
acceptable. I think as far as the
market's concerned in particular,
remember we're still dealing and we're
just coming out of a data vacuum, right?
We're just emerging from that. I think
we get into the first half of next year
and the Fed would have cut 50 basis
points this year. I think the market's
assumption that we're going to get
three, four more rate cuts next year,
that's I think completely unclear to me
right now. The first half of next year,
I think, is going to be really strong
from a growth perspective. And
potentially, if we actually get those
$2,000, $1,500
uh tariff rebate checks going around,
that means you're you're going to have
tailwinds not just to growth, but also
to inflation.
>> So, where is the inflationary pressure
going to come from? because right now
it's not coming as much from the housing
sector. We've seen rents actually
decline in a number of places. Huge push
to bring down energy costs, maybe not in
the electricity side. What's the biggest
inflationary impulse here? Can I can I
turn that on its head please?
>> Where has the disinflation been? Do you
know since the middle of 2023, we've
been bouncing along at basically 3%.
We've dropped by a few tenths. We've
gone up by a few tenths. We're running
at a headline of basically 3%.
disinflation stopped 2 and a half years
ago. Now, it's against that background
that I'm looking at expansionary fiscal
policy, potentially a boom coming from
capex and AI, and we're going to get I I
firmly believe that one of the main
drivers of that original spike that we
saw a few years ago in inflation was
those $1,400 checks which got sent out.
And now we're talking about checks
again. And where is the inflation going
to come from? I think it's demand side
pressures.
>> Do you agree with what Lisa Shallot told
us last hour, which is basically if we
get a new Fed chair, actually was
earlier this hour, if we get a new Fed
chair,
>> potentially one of the first things
we're going to do is
>> ink the policy towards 3% inflation
target instead of two, basically
accepting three as the new two, haven't
we already?
>> I'm just asking you, seriously, it's 2
and a half years. And the Fed the Fed
has cut by next week it will be 150
basis points while being 50% above it
above its target. So if I think about
the 100 basis points we got last year uh
it's it was against a background of
higher inflation than we are at today.
So I guess where I'm coming from is all
this focus on whether the new Fed chair
is going to drive this Fed doubbish.
It's moot. We have a doubbish Fed. I've
said it before, last last Fed governor
we had was Paul Buler and that's maybe
okay but I'm just saying that if we are
running around you know bouncing along
three and then you get some drive you
could get a pickup not to six seven but
maybe to three and a half four I don't
know and I don't I just don't know that
it will be the type of backdrop against
which we can get the aggressive kind of
rate cuts that are being set in a bar
next year as long as they Next week the
bar next year is going to be much higher
than correct.
>> I think it is higher if we are correct
in terms of those tailwinds to growth.
Now you know many things can go
completely wrong. Nobody anticipated co
for example. There are many things which
can go wrong. But if I look at what we
have right now, if I look at the capex
plans which 450 uh billion this year,
500 odd next year. I mean, just to put
this into perspective, Germany is going
to do1 trillion euros over 10 years. The
private sector in the US is doing a
delta of about a trillion in two. Of
course, it's going to have a growth
impact.
>> So, why not just go wholeheartedly into
risk assets and to go into speculative
grade bonds because ultimately it's
either a Fed put if things deteriorate
or it's an acceleration of growth that
will make these companies more able to
repay their debts. I think valuations
valuations there is a certain question
of absolute risk. I don't think you buy
the entire market. I still believe in
being aggressively neutral. I think the
curve is going to steepen without a
doubt. In terms of the risks to the
scenario, I don't think the risks are
going to be coming mass from from a
massive uptake in defaults until the
bottom drops out of the economy. That's
what I'd be looking for. maybe not even
the bottom dropping out but significant
weakness which we are not currently uh
anticipating but do you go wholehog in
no because uh spreads are tight right so
uh the valuations for fixed income as a
whole as I'm looking into next year I'm
looking at clipping coupon taking income
clipping coupon but you know not
anticipating a massive rally from where
we are right now
>> Desai wonderful to see you thank you so
much for being with us here in studio
Sel Desai Franklin Templeton here with
us coming up over the next hour. Tom
Becker of Black Rockck, Chuck Grom of
Gordon Hask. Uh Kathy Bostansic of
Nationwide and Lisa Simon of Revelio
Labs. I am curious going forward of how
we interpret Emory some of these
earnings. We got Dollar General this
question around is this good news, is
this bad news. It sounds like it's a bit
of both with respect to both trading
down and customers looking for
discounts, but also clearly people still
have the cash to spend.
>> I think that's exactly right. It's two
signals. one, people are still going
out, they're spending. Consumer has been
resilient and hasn't just been these
Dollar Tree stores or Dollar General.
It's been really across the board. Even
Macy's had a very good quarter. But then
at the same time, because it's so good
when it comes to the lower
uh retail stores, you have the high-end
consumer looking for deals could spell
trouble.
>> Yeah, we'll be looking at Dollar
General, Dollar Tree. One is green, one
is yellow. Right now, markets looking
for a third straight day of gains from
New York City. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Shortterm these markets are being driven
by momentum.
>> We are underweight the entire tech
complex at this point.
>> We stay risk heading into next year.
>> There is chance for some deterioration
in equity markets.
>> We're embracing a broadening out theme.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance as stocks look to push a
third straight day of gains just edging
higher in pre-market trading. Questions
swirling over the economy as corporate
America posts some positive returns. Now
on to jobless claims in just about a
half an hour time after we got those
challenger job cuts after we got ADP.
Will we get some insight from the latest
bout of data that we get? Well, jobless
claims going to be interesting. um
especially given the fact that we had as
you said ADP yesterday which was really
downbeat when it comes to private sector
when it comes to small businesses and
then of course the challenger cuts this
morning all of this as we head into a
Fed meeting where they do not have the
gold standard the top tier when it comes
to non-farm payrolls because of the
government shutdown Neil Duta yesterday
besides his scathing review of Kevin
Hasset as Fed chair talked about the bad
labor anecdotes and how they just keep
continuing whether it's omnicom whether
it's HP even if it's not a ton of mass
announcements the direction of travel
does seem to be seen that there has been
some weakness when it comes to labor
market the ongoing debate right now in
uh on Wall Street and in corporate
America is can you see gains on the
corporate side without the job market
participating where you see this
question around artificial intelligence
time and again and whether people have
maybe overplayed the valuations Lisa
Shalet in the last hour saying that she
thinks that actually the story for the
economy related to AI is in the first
inning but the story related to
valuations on the tech stock side is
probably in the sixth or seventh
valuation. And Morgan sailing
strategists are talking about how all
these companies are basically spending
some $3 trillion on the buildout of data
centers through 2028. That's only in 3
years time. It is a mass a mass amount
of money when yet we don't really see
the full use case and maybe individuals
are starting to get concerned. Lisa was
also talking about the fact that there
has been a lot of circular financing in
this space. So 2026 incredibly
challenging as a lot of this is being
financed by the debt market.
>> So as we were just talking about in
about 28 minutes time we do get uh the
jobless claims the weekly gauge of just
how many people are looking for benefits
as well as continuing claims. Watch this
space. Then of course after the bell we
get a host of earnings just they've been
trickling out. Kroger's in particular in
front focus for the grocery store
outlook given the fact that people are
wondering about the consumer. Right now
in markets you are seeing equities uh
futures inflect higher. They have built
on some of that momentum throughout the
morning. A real question of what's
driving that given the fact that you're
seeing yields higher as well in the bond
space even though you did see a
successful bond auction in Japan on the
long end. 10-year yields in the United
States almost reaching that 4.10 level
4.0923
up three basis points. Coming up this
hour, Tom Becker of Black Rockck with
stock seeing a third straight day of
gains. Chuck Grom of Gordon Hask
recapping the latest round of retail
earnings. And Kathy Pastansic of
Nationwide as we break down those weekly
jobless claims that we were just talking
about. We begin this hour stocks holding
steady with traders betting that Fed
rate cuts will help drive a global rally
into year end. Tom Becker of Black
Rockck joins us now. Tom, great to see
you. I'm curious to see whether you've
shaved, you have. you have gotten rid of
the mustache that was for Halloween.
Tom, I am curious about how you're
seeing right now the deck stacked for
next year given the fact that a lot of
people are betting that rate cuts can
fuel a lot of the multiple expansion
that they're looking for.
>> Morning, Lisa. Uh yeah, I think the the
kind of pricing of the Fed is a little
kind of at odds with with what Anorie
was just saying, which is there still is
the fog that Jay Powell mentioned at the
last last press conference. They're not
going to have enough data to kind of
guide the markets, and I think they
started to do that the last meeting. Um
it seems like the weaker data over the
last few weeks will will kind of
solidify uh a cut next week. uh Jaden
pushed back against that earlier this
week when he could have, but from there
I think that they're they're they're
going to be a little bit less um okay
with kind of pricing in uh meeting by
meeting and that's you know the bond
market's adjusted to that. Do you think
that this uh market more broadly has
gotten away with the idea that the Fed
is going to cut rates significantly that
either they're going to cut because of
benign disinflation even with growth or
they're going to aggressively cut in the
face of potentially some sort of
disruption? Do you think that people
have gotten a little bit
overenthusiastic
relying on that for some of their pretty
positive expectations for next year?
So, the Fed has a different mandate than
other central banks and and I think the
dual mandate really gives them a lot of
leeway. We've seen this in past cycles.
Uh Janet Yellen kind of leaned heavily
on our spiderweb of kind of uh labor
market indicators. And so as as kind of
the AI maybe takes some of the pressure
off the high end of the labor market, as
the low end of the labor market is maybe
struggling with the low end of the
consumer not doing quite as well, I
think the labor market in the US um just
keeps the Fed more in play than foreign
central banks. And so uh we we've
shifted portfolios more into US
treasuries versus uh foreign government
bonds because the fiscal policy has
moved more stimulatory in in other
countries. So the US kind of led this
fiscal dominance uh policy mix a few
years ago. Uh it was very uh geared
toward crowding in private sector
investment. you've got kind of the the
AI super cycle and the the hyperscalers
kind of uh toward the tail end of kind
of the acceleration from from their
capex u and so foreign countries have
have taken on that playbook and you're
seeing uh much more crowd in in fiscal
policy in Europe you're seeing in Canada
you're seeing in Australia so these
foreign markets are kind of taking that
US playbook from a few years ago
deploying it and and that makes
treasuries a little bit more attractive
relative to those foreign bonds at this
point in our portfolio
Tom, though, we're going to have a huge
fiscal impulse next year. A lot of uh
laws that were passed this year with the
one big beautiful bill, tax rebates.
This administration is still talking
about $2,000 tariff dividend checks
going out to the American people all
ahead of a midterm election where, you
know, that they have control of Congress
and the White House. Don't you think
there's going to be more fiscal
dominance in 2026 in this country as
well?
>> For sure. So fiscal dominance, I think,
is is the the DM playbook. Uh we remain
short the long end of of government bond
markets globally. Uh so 30-year bonds to
us don't offer attractive risk return
because exactly what you're talking
about, Anmarie. Um I I think the
question of how much is in the price
OBBA was was passed back in in July. Uh
so the market kind of knows that the the
consumer tax cuts are coming next year.
uh when tax season comes around, it
definitely front ran the the tax cuts
that hit the corporate earnings in Q3
and kind of led to the higher guidance
in Q2. So the the market sees some of
that coming ahead. Um I guess the
question to us is is whether those types
of tax cuts um can potentially be saved
more than spent in this type of
environment where you are seeing some
challenges in in kind of the labor
market and maybe uncertainty. consumer
confidence are not at levels where
you're going to have that kind of stem
check COVID response where you know the
money's immediately going to kind of you
know head into the economy in terms of a
a really buoyant consumer. Uh the US
consumer has been a little more middling
this year um and foreign consumers have
been stronger overnight in Australia.
Really strong um retail sales. European
retail sales all year have kind of
quietly continued to trend higher
despite being hit by the tariffs and
having some uh industrial challenges
there. So I I think you know the the
question of the psychology of of how um
those those additional tax cuts that hit
kind of consumers next year feed into
the economy is a big open question. It's
an interesting point because Lisa
Charlotte in the last hour was talking
about how the resilience we're seeing in
the consumer right now ahead of the
holidays is them banking on getting
their refunds next year. Do you think
they're frontloading the fiscal impulse
out of Washington right now? So then
basically next year there's not going to
be a whole lot of spending.
>> We've seen that the last couple years
where you've had a pretty big hangover
in January, February, uh retail sales
and kind of consumption data. Um you
know, credit is is flush. you know,
consumers have access to credit. Um
there there's some more defaults at the
low end, but in general, kind of the the
middle class and and the high end of the
K are definitely using their access to
credit. And so, you're right, they could
be pulling forward uh some of that
today. Um and and and kind of you're
going to see maybe a little bit of a
hangover in Q1 potentially. It it's
really hard to tell. I think that like
the driving through the fog is is a good
description.
>> Tom, do you think that treasuries are a
better bet than some risk assets then?
um risk assets were pretty neutral um in
in directional sense. Uh I think your
last guest was talking about just fully
loaded valuations here. Uh it feels a
little bit of like last year where kind
of there's this enthusiasm into year
end. You've got kind of a momentum
tailwind. Um it it'll be interesting to
see at the end of the year when
liquidity is a little tighter and market
kind of um you know how some of the
dynamics of these momentum trades how
they shake out at the beginning and next
year for for directional uh risk assets.
We still do like US equities relative to
foreign equities. Um we like Japanese
equities and kind of the the kind of
structural changes going on in that
economy. um and some of the beaten down
European markets um France, UK that
haven't really gotten a lot of love the
last couple years. So that there are
pockets in the global equity landscape
where where we see attractive uh risk
return but directionally uh not as
convicted here.
>> Yeah, Tom, it seems like uh some people
who've been on the show this morning
would agree with you at least in the
short term. on the rotation side because
you do see potentially an outperformance
of US treasuries. Do you think there
will be a broadening out albeit maybe a
rocky road in terms of the overall
direction?
>> Yeah, I I I think the the you you can
have we have the advantage where we can
put relative value positions into
portfolios and so um you know treasuries
could drift higher here. Um I think it
really is a function of the data uh the
Fed guidance. There's also IPA um you
know this big open question for
treasuries which is um are the tariffs
legal? Are the companies potentially
going to get refund checks if if they're
deemed illegal? Um and so that's that's
a real big arbiter for how the US fiscal
landscape looks because the tariffs have
been filling in a lot of the budget
deficit that OBBBA created. And so if
there is kind of this question of you
know instead of five 6% budget deficits
it's more 67 um I I think the the bond
market would definitely have a tough
time digesting that. So I do think in in
the next couple months there's just a
lot of data both on the hard side but
also on the policy side uh that markets
are going to need to interpret to to
understand what the the deficit outlook
it is what the supply outlook looks
like. Tom, yesterday the Treasury
Secretary exuded a lot of confidence
that regardless of what the Supreme
Court does on AIPA, they will use other
avenues that they have to enact the same
level of tariffs on countries. So when
you're concerned about AIPA, what is it
exactly that makes you a little bit
nervous?
>> I guess the politics of tariffs might be
a little bit different given the
November election outturns and the cost
of living. Um, you know, whether whether
you want to keep going hard to the hoop
in terms of goods price inflation
remaining stickier and higher is kind of
an open question from from where we sit.
Um, that that's definitely been a
challenge. It's politically unpopular.
Um, and it it has been politically
unpopular in America for for decades.
Um, people don't like high inflation.
They don't like the salience of high
price levels. Um, and so yeah, I I think
if you have to kind of reunderwite it
over and over again, um, you know, not
not that there wouldn't be ways
potentially, uh, it's not it's not, um,
you know, my specialty, but, uh, just in
terms of, you know, how how you would
legislate at this point, uh, feels a
little bit trickier.
>> Tom Becker of Black Rockck, thank you so
much, uh, for being with us this
morning. And just to sort of build on
that, Kroger is actually coming out
lowering the top end of its full year's
forecast because of some of the
selectiveness of consumers. Speaking
exactly to that point,
>> selectiveness of consumers, potentially
some of the costs going up that even the
administration had to do a U-turn on
tariff levels and also the SNAP
benefits, what was going on with the
government shutdown. It has been very
challenging for some of these grocery
stores to basically consistently amend
themselves to what is going on in policy
in Washington. Yeah, we'll get more on
uh Kroger and that story more broadly in
a bit. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with the Ahira on
Antihira. Hi, Lisa. Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant could be the next National
Economic Council director. Sourc is
telling us here at Bloomberg that
President Trump's top aids are
considering Bessant for the dual role.
Bessant would replace Kevin Hasset, who
Trump has hinted could be named the next
chair of the Federal Reserve. Meanwhile,
US Trade Representative Jameson Greer
suggesting that President Donald Trump
is considering withdrawing from the
United States, Mexico, Canada agreement
within the next year. Greer telling
Politico that the deal's built-in review
period exists, quote, in case we needed
to revise it, review it, or exit it.
This coming despite the deal encouraging
members to be to remain in the agreement
until 2036.
And shares of Dollar General are rising
nearly 6% in the pre-market on an upbeat
earnings report. The discount retailer
beating third quarter estimates on the
top and bottom lines and boosting its
comparable sales forecast for the full
year. This comes after strong results
from rival Dollar Tree, highlighting how
value focused retailers are winning over
consumers that are hunting for deals.
That's brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Chuck Rom of Gordon
Hask recapping the latest round of
retail earnings. That's next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
For the last two years, the macro
consensus has very systematically
underestimated
macro growth. The market, the macro
consensus, uh our economists a little
bit less so. Uh you know, are still very
much focused on the risk. So the equity
market has to climb basically, you know,
the the the traditional wall of worry.
And I think it's actually positioned for
that.
>> That was Binky Chado of Deutsche Bank
with his 8,000 call for the S&P 500 by
the end of next year. Right now kind of
fluctuating between gains and losses
throughout the morning. Futures
basically flat on the S&P. We are seeing
just a rangebound again in the currency
space after a bout of dollar weakness. A
question of how much that can continue
early next year. Yes, a question of
fiscal dominance of the US. But can
Europe get back together is sort of the
key question. and yields continuing to
inflect higher. Watch this space up
about three basis points to 4.09%.
Also, take a look at Kroger shares
pre-market. We did get some earnings
from the likes of Dollar General and
Kroger. Kroger down 1 and a.5%. Amory a
little concerning kind of the opposite
story in terms of consumer choicefulness
or pickiness. The idea that people
really are being particular about what
they can buy and basically consumers
searching to stretch their budget. Maybe
they're buying the store brand. Maybe
they're buying the sale items, finding
any way to make sure they can stretch
their budget when they're out grocery
shopping. And it's groceries that have
been key to this affordability issue.
Political this morning, Lisa, has a
brutal poll for this administration.
Half basically, 46% in their poll say
the cost of living in the US is the
worst they can ever remember it being.
And that is a view held by 37% of Trump
voters. So this is the challenge the
administration has. This is what the
polling is showing. some corporate
America showing strains, especially a
lower income cohort. And the president
of the United States is saying it's an
affordability hoax. That's going to be
incredibly challenging and probably why
he's going to a state like Pennsylvania
next week according to Axios.
>> Yeah, and certainly people watching the
retailers in particular. Time now for
the morning calls. First up, Barclay is
raising its price target on TJX to $172,
noting its strong start to the holiday
season. Those shares just up about 210
of a percent. Next up, City raising its
target on Five Below to $175,
seeing near-term positive momentum. And
finally, Wells Fargo raising its target
on Dollar Tree to 125, citing potential
for a good holiday season. Sticking with
retail, Dollar General shares rising
after earnings. The budget retailer
boosting its fullear outlook as more
consumers turn to discount options.
Chuck Gordon of uh Chuck Grom of Gordon
Hasuit has an accumulate on the stock
price stock with a price target of $115.
Chuck joins us now for more. Chuck, just
taking a step back. Good morning. What's
your overall view of whether the
consumer is in a good place and can
spend or not based on diverging reports
from different retailers?
>> A lot of moving parts, right, over the
past couple of weeks. I I think the
consumer is going to show up this
holiday season, but they're going to be
choiceful. We're definitely going to see
a lull over the next couple of weeks,
but as we've seen during back to school
and other holiday periods throughout the
year, people people are going to show
up. I do think that the hangover in
January is going to be real like we've
seen over the past couple of years, but
there's a lot of moving parts. We'll
continue to monitor things. Um and and
you know, some of the numbers that we
saw over the past 24 hours have been
have been actually pretty good like you
said on Dollar General five below five
below last night. Um so we'll see uh
we'll see how things shake out.
>> Chuck, uh Emory was talking about this
earlier. Is it good news or bad news
that consumers are going to the
discounters more significantly? Dollar
General in particular, Dollar Tree,
tends to indicate that people are
trading down. Is this time different?
>> I I think, you know, everybody's talking
about this K-shaped uh economy, and I I
think it's real. You you know, you saw
Bloomingdales uh last last night at
Macy's have really good numbers, and
like you said, some of these uh these
dollar stores doing a little bit better
tend to be an indicator of consumer
stress. Um and I think we'll see that
we'll see that play out. You know, the
big thing that we're focused on is is
companies that can drive traffic. And
and the big difference between some of
these uh low-end dollar stores is is
DG's traffic was up two and a half%.
Dollar Trees was actually down uh five
below last night was up 7%. So traffic
is always an important barometer for for
retailer health and that's what we're
going to continue to be focused on.
>> Chuck, you're talking about this
K-shaped consumer. So okay, Blue Mercury
and Bloomingdale is doing really well.
Dollar Tree, Dollar General doing really
well. What about those retailers in the
middle? Are they doing well?
>> I I think it's a jump ball. I think it's
it's companies that are that are
isolated on taking share individually
like like a Kohl's or a Macy's. We're
going to continue to monitor. Um I think
there's a lot of market share up for
grabs and and at some point it's a zero
sum game. You see in in off price,
right? You see TJX doing really well,
Ross stores doing really well, but
Burl's struggling. So it's there's no
really one-sizefits-all. It's all market
share opportunities within each within
each of these verticals. When you talk
about the hangover in January, what does
that look like?
>> Well, that's an interesting question.
That could be a lot of things. Um, but I
think that I think it's going to be a
slowdown in in spending in January and
into February. People are going to spend
they're going to build up their credit.
Um, and then they're going to have to
pay that credit down. We've seen that
that's that's a historical pattern and I
think most retailers will take a really
strong holiday um for for softness in
the month of in for the month of
January. It's not a surprise to us. uh
you are going to see some fiscal
stimulus come in um in the form of
better tax refunds as we move into the
first quarter. That's going to be a very
big impact um in the front half of 2026
that we're going to that should be a big
tailwind for for a lot of companies in
our coverage universe.
>> Chuck, we're about 7 minutes away from
getting jobless claims and there's been
this divergence where the consumer has
held in. It's been a mixed season, but
there has been some sign that they are
absorbing costs and continuing to shop.
And we've seen increasing weakness on
the labor front from the retailers that
you speak to and analyze. How much are
they looking for efficiencies on cutting
costs, possibly augmenting with
technology in order to maintain their
margins, maintain their profitability?
>> No doubt. I mean, if you look at what
we're seeing across price increases this
year and how all these companies across
the board have been able to really
minimize the price increases that we're
seeing at the at at at the consumer
level, you're seeing a lot of
efficiencies and and that's something
that a lot of these companies learned
five or six years ago coming out of co
how to how to think on their feet, how
to be more efficient and now we're
starting to lay an artificial
intelligence. you know, we're seeing
companies just being smarter across the
board, whether it be how they're all
allocating labor in stores, how they're
allocating um supply chain costs, just
across the board, they're they're just
getting smarter and being able to do it
better. Um but to your point, there's
there there are some signs of consumer
stress out there. You just referenced
Kroger lowering their ID sale guide. Uh
Costco, a company who rarely misses on
monthly comps, missed last night. Um and
traffic was the issue. So it it is
tricky out there right now. Um it it's
not rosy. I think our survey work, macro
survey work shows consumer is still very
concerned about pricing. I mean food
prices are still up 25 to 30%
year-over-year. It's going to be a very
cold winter. We're going to start to
hear about higher heating bills coming
in and that's going to be another factor
that'll that'll that'll impact that
hangover effect in January. So um we
think you have to be very selective.
We're barbel in our approach in terms of
stock ratings. Um, but we'll continue to
monitor things over the next few weeks.
>> Chuck Rom and hopefully we can continue
to check in with you over the next few
weeks. Chuck Rom of Gordon Hasuit,
thanks so much for being with us. Right
now, you are seeing that bifurcation.
Dollar General shares on one hand doing
better and what you see coming out of
Kroger is not so much speaking to the
story about groceries.
>> Speaking to the story about groceries
that they are up, they are much higher.
We saw the administration has this
impulse to try to fix that. Reviewing
some of the tariff policy and some key
groceries, things like bananas, they're
supposed to be inflationproof. you're
seeing higher prices for Kofi, coffee,
everyday items for consumers and that
they're just being stretched. That's
what Kroger's feeling. But to um his
point, then you look at how Walmart's
been able to mitigate some of this. Some
companies have been able to mitigate
some of the uncertainty in environment
and others just haven't been able to do
it as well.
>> And how much has come with the increase
in labor or not up just shortly, we do
get those jobless claims from New York
City. Good morning
It feels a little bit like people are
sitting there turning around their
pencils without some of the uh key data
points that we're used to getting.
Markets basically flat across the board
as uh futures fluctuate between gains
and losses up about a tenth of a percent
on the S&P. You are seeing yields just a
touch higher 4.09% 09% rounded up on the
10-year despite some uh auctions
overnight that actually did better
internationally. Right now we are
getting uh initial jobless claims which
is the key data that we get after what
we got with Challenger and they actually
come in less than expected. They were
expected to come in at 220,000. They
came in at 191,000. It is down from what
we saw last week which was at 216,000.
Now for continuing claims you also see a
slight decline. So the people who
actually were receiving unemployment
benefits ticks lower to 1.939
million from 1.96 million. I know it's
like parsing hairs at the same time in
the right direction. This would indicate
that the economy is not necessarily
falling off the cliff. Bloomberg's
current joins us with more. And uh what
do we see here?
>> Well, it was a holiday shortened weekly
so worth bearing in mind. But I think
it's interesting to your point that the
continuing claims also dipped a little
bit. I mean, you can have the volatility
in the headline number, but a lot of
people have been arguing that the the
ongoing increase in the continuing
claims suggests a weakening labor
market. Nonetheless, the headline
figures taken with the challenger data
earlier on this morning suggesting that
layoffs, the pace of layoffs has maybe
slowed perhaps suggests maybe the jobs
market isn't as bad as thought or
perhaps is even stabilizing. But really,
Lisa, the bigger picture though, we have
to remember here, even without the
official data, of course, is that we've
had the ADP, we've had those warnings
from the Beige book, and of course, we
have rolling headlines from companies
that at the very least the labor market
is softening. The question now is just
how weak it is. And of course, until we
get the a good run of official data,
it's very hard to make that judgment.
>> When you look at markets and how they're
responding to this, it's uh kind of, as
you would expect, a mixed picture. On
one hand, it does seem like the Fed can
cut rates uh come next week. At the same
time, the degree to which they are able
to cut rates going forward in question.
You could see this S&P futures now
almost flat. NASDAQ futures down now a
tenth of a percent. Russell 2000 down
310 of a percent. The Y is in the bond
space. Twos 10 and 30s. Yields higher.
Price down across the board up three
basis points at the front end 3.51%.
10-year yields similar type of move. It
does seem like when you bleed this
through the currency space, this is
actually going to be a stronger dollar,
at least for the moment, pausing some of
the weakness that we have been seeing.
And it does seem like this does put the
Fed in a position maybe to cut next
week, but after that, a lot of questions
of how far they can go.
>> Well, that is a big question, Lisa. As
you say, the markets have clearly
decided the Fed will cut next week. We
had some strong dovish signals towards
the the start of the blackout period. in
particular the New York head of New York
Fed John Williams of course suggesting
that perhaps there is enough there to
get the Fed over the line for a rate cut
we don't know that we know it's going to
be somewhat of a close call but to your
point whatever comes out of that
decision next week and especially if
they do cut clearly the indications will
be that it's going to be a complicated
story heading into next year we know
that inflation remains well above the
target we'll get PCE tomorrow that will
give us some indication as to where the
where PCE is headed but when you
consider the backdrop of a weakening
labor market but we don't know by how
much it's weakening
Inflation still above target, but we
don't quite yet know what direction it
is headed. It's going to take a few more
months to get a final handle on the
tariff story. There's a lot up in the
air right now. So, even if the Fed do
cut next week, early next year already
looks quite complicated.
>> Edin, thank you so much for being with
us and breaking that down. Kathy
Bastensic of Nationwide joining us now
for her take on this. Kathy, is this an
allclear read that maybe the worst is
behind us and we're not seeing those
jobless claims pick up in a material way
that would really raise a red flag?
Well, good morning, Lisa. Happy to be
with you. Um, so I I think what it just
underscores, we're we continue to be in
this no fire uh no hire uh environment.
Um, you know, the the reality is not
much changed really over over the last
couple weeks. Yes, we're missing the
payroll data that would be, you know,
very u essential to have ahead of the
FOMC meeting, but I think based on what
if information we have is that the labor
market is kind of stalled. Um but it
it's not cratering and um you know we
take some refuge in that right the the
initial jobs claims yes it was a holiday
week probably was skewed a little lower
because of that um but it's still
remaining quite low you look at the
four-week moving average of initial jobs
claims just incredibly low um at this
point that said I do agree that um if if
you're let go of a job the the elevated
continuing claims figures show it is
tougher to find one. But again, that
gets into that no higher, no fire
environment.
>> Kathy, how difficult is to make the Fed
decision next week when you see
continuing claims after ADP? What do
they cling to when they deliberate on
how they actually want to take the path
of interest rates?
>> Yeah, it's incredibly difficult at this
point because, you know, you you know
that the the hiring numbers are quite
soft, right? And AEDP even suggests that
it may be even weaker than that. um they
don't have, you know, the gold standard,
which is the Bureau of Labor Statistics
employment report that should be coming
out tomorrow. Um that will be six days
after they meet. Um but I think they
still see the risks on the downside. Um
so even though it's not showing up again
in these layoff numbers um if you look
at the employment figures even the
latest you know BLS official data we
have you can see the cyclical sectors of
the economy are just not hiring and and
they went on pause really for for much
of this year. Now, our view is that next
year things will loosen up and get
better. But I think in the meantime, you
have this pause and Fed officials have
to say, well, policy rates we think are
still restrictive. Is that really
necessary? Especially if they think that
inflation is going to be, you know,
trending lower and the tariff impact
fades.
>> So Kathy, if they cut next week, as
you're expecting, as the market is
expecting, what does this mean for 2026?
Because you also think that hiring could
be sluggish as well next year. Do they
just continue on this path?
Yeah. So, I think that um the the the
sluggish hiring continues through, you
know, the early part of next year and
then I think things loosen up. I think
we get further away from, you know, the
the large uncertainty around policy
changes. That settles in and I think the
tax um incentives for companies, they're
going to invest. Um that's going to
start to get the juices in the economy
flowing. and also the tax cuts for um
individuals and and also these large tax
refunds, right, are going to be
significant. So, I think as we move
through the first quarter towards the
end, you're going to start to see some
of this positive stimulus stimulus
impact. Now, I think the Fed could go on
hold for several months. Um but then
later in the year, particularly after we
get, you know, a change in the
leadership of the Fed, um come June, we
could start to see maybe another two
rate cuts in the in the latter part of
next year. Kathy Vansic of Nationwide,
thank you so much for your insights
after we did that get those jobless
claims. If you are just joining us, it
was 191,000 in terms of the total
headline jobless claims in the past
week. That is the lowest going back to
September of 2022. So really
highlighting that this is not exactly an
economy that's falling off a cliff.
Nonetheless, difficult to really get a
read on it, which is the reason why
people keep focusing on the fact that
we're not getting non-farm payrolls.
>> And also, Endog had a great point. Last
week was a shortened week. So, if you
take that into account, is this really
that great of a report. Is it enough to
sway the Federal Reserve next week?
Probably not.
>> Which is the reason why people are
looking to alternative data sources. A
new report out from Rellio, a public
labor statistics showing the economy
shed 9,000 jobs in November. Lisa Simon
of Revelio Labs writing, "The labor
market is becoming increasingly
bifurcated again and the K-shaped
economy shows up clearly in job
postings." Lisa joins us now. Lisa,
thank you so much for being with us. It
seems like there is an increasing focus
on looking to other sources to try to
offset the der of other data. Your
information is pointing to a weaker
economy and a weaker labor market than
what we just got with jobless claims.
Can you elaborate?
>> Definitely. Yeah, we're we're seeing a
um shedding of 9,000 jobs um in the
economy um in November. And I really
think that um that bifurcated labor
market that we have been talking about
um is really visible where the sectors
adding jobs um in health and education
and also public administration making a
recovery after last month um adding jobs
and then the sectors losing jobs in uh
leisure and hospitality, retail trade,
manufacturing um and also transportation
and warehousing um really are um more of
the bluecollar um jobs in um lower lower
paying um occupations that that we're
seeing. So um I think where we are
seeing um relative strength um at the
top and then um a a increasing weakening
at at the bottom. Um and I do think that
especially looking at the um largest
employers driving some of these losses
um we are um seeing that um making that
point even even clearer um the um
employers losing um most jobs in
November in the um leisure hospitality
sector where McDonald's and um uh
Starbucks and then um also in
manufacturing um biggest losses uh for
Intel and Astroenic
um not so much maybe that blue collar
point but pointing to the fact what um
manufacturing employment really means in
um in the US. Right.
>> Do you have any sense of whether this is
demand side or supply side? Right. I
mean some of these jobs you could say
are probably disproportionately affected
by immigration and the fact that it
really has been uh a negative outflow of
individuals from this country for a
variety of reasons. How much does that
end up factoring as much as just a lack
of demand, especially given some of the
positive earnings we've seen?
>> I do think it's a lack of demand. Um we
are seeing job postings um down
basically for 12 uh consecutive months.
Um and while um of course um there there
is pressure on um on the supply side. Um
I don't think we've fully seen the
effect realize on that. Um and it's more
the um increased uncertainty for
employers. the um uh pressure um of
tariffs and um yeah just I think general
um cautiousness uh that is driving the
the weakness here. Is 2026 going to
change course at least for
manufacturing? There's all this money
being spent on AI data center buildouts
in some pockets of the United States. I
mean the Wall Street Journal had a story
about this this week. You're seeing huge
salaries for specific construction jobs.
Is that going to be more broad-based?
Yeah, it's um it it remains to be uh
seen at the moment. Um you know, the the
recovery isn't really in sight. Um I
would sort of not call it a uh you know,
a falling off a cliff, but sort of a a
slow trudging um downwards. Um I do see
a little bit of um of hope in um uh sort
of the the rate of decline and hiring
rates uh slowing down. So we are um
perhaps bottoming out um there. And in
fairness, I I don't think you know
hiring and attrition could uh be going
much lower at this point. Um so
potentially um for 2026 um we will be
seeing a recovery especially um if we're
expecting uh further rate cuts as well.
>> Have you seen any instances and examples
where AI is making this so much more
challenging?
>> Yeah. Um we do see that um entry- level
employment has particularly suffered. um
we wrote a study um looking at the AI
exposure um in occupations and are
finding that um the higher the exposure
um for entry- level roles the uh lower
the the demand or the the bigger the
decline in demand. So um in particularly
uh for uh entry- level jobs with high
levels of exposure and an example of
that I think is this week um McKenzie
announcing um uh big job cuts um and at
the training of um of large amounts of
AI agents I think is a is a prime
example while we're still seeing hiring
for senior consultants um at McKenzie.
So I think you know that's a prime
example of some of these uh the dangers
that we're we're seeing.
>> Lisa Simon, thank you so much for being
with us. Lisa Simon of Revelio Labs as
we try to get a sense of exactly what's
going on and ultimately right now the
fact that we just got jobless claims at
the lowest level going back to September
of 2022 highlights just how confusing
this moment really is.
>> You talked about though what Lisa was
saying in terms of AI and the hiring
what the anthropic uh seauite has been
talking about those entrylevel white
collar jobs potentially could be
decimated in the next 5 10 years.
>> Yeah, maybe sooner.
>> Yeah. Well, other people say uh creative
destruction is something that always
happens. I will just say it has been a
morning of Lisas, as you pointed out uh
with our guests uh and myself. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
this morning uh that are going on
elsewhere. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yah.
>> Hi, Lisa. Recapping the labor market
data, we just got jobless claims for
last week coming in at 191,000, a drop
of 27,000 from the week prior and well
below estimates of 220,000. It's
actually the lowest weekly jobless print
in over three years and an encouraging
sign for the economy. Continuing claims
also fell by 4,000, totaling just under
1.94 million for the week prior.
Meanwhile, a Pentagon watchdog found
Defense Secretary Pete Hegsth risked
endangering American troops when he
shared attack plans against Houthy
rebels on the Signal Messaging app.
According to a classified report by the
acting Pentagon inspector general, Hegth
violated government policies by using
his personal cell and signal. Hegs says
he was authorized to declassify any
material in the chat. And Nvidia CEO
Jensen Wong says he's not sure if China
would accept the company's H200 AI chips
if the US relaxes restrictions on sales
of the processors. Earlier this year,
the chip giant won approval to sell its
less powerful H20 chip in Beijing, but
China promptly told potential domestic
customers to shun the product and rely
instead on processors made by Chinese
companies. That's your Bloomberg break.
Lisa, thank you so much, Yahara. Up
next, setting you up for the day ahead.
Plus, Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers. Snowflake sliding after an
underwhelming forecast. Those shares
lower by more than 9%. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
in terms of scaling and actually
monetizing the AI services on a consumer
front. Um, we're still not quite there
at this point. it becomes difficult,
especially in a in a more challenging
macro outlook, to really get the
consumer to to really pay up for these
services. I think it gets interesting as
we start thinking about new devices.
It's all about continuing to find new
use cases for AI and finding something
that really is gamechanging for them
where they're willing to pay for it.
>> That was Angela Zeno of CFRA as
questions mount about the use cases and
the ability for people to use them. And
there was a story yesterday about how
executives were paying employees bonuses
for finding new creative ways to use
artificial intelligence. Right now in
markets you are seeing a bit of a pop uh
in the S&P although really flat
essentially earlier this morning was
much more. You're seeing the NASDAQ and
Russell futures both lower after bond
yields rose. You see actually Russell
2000 underperforming down four ten of a
percent twos tens and 30s yields higher
across the board after the jobless
claims came in at the lowest pace going
back to September 2022.
Now two-year yields are up by three
basis points to 3.51%
yield curve flattening with a real
question about whether the Fed can cut
as much as people would expect. And what
you see in the currency space just a
little push back from the dollar
weakness that we had been seeing uh with
the euro now just slightly lower under
an hour away from the cash open. Here
are your morning movers Danny Ber. Danny
Lisa coming to the theme that you were
talking about the big tech earnings we
got yesterday. We're trying to get at
this question. Are people using AI? Is
it contributing to profitability or are
people just experimenting with it? There
was good news that came from Salesforce.
They said that their AI agent offering
now has 9,500
uh firms signed up to it. There was some
real concern going into the earnings. So
that's helping shares pop with also
positive outlook up some 1%. Now on the
flip side of things, there's Snowflake
is one of these cloud companies. For
them, the concern is maybe AI isn't
contributing as much or at least not
giving them the profitability that
people would like to see. Their adjusted
margins were something like 7%, the
expectation was above 8%. You can see
that fear injected into the share price.
Now they are now down 9.2%.
The other flavor of earnings we've been
getting are retailers, specifically the
discount one. Yesterday was Dollar Tree.
Today it's Dollar General. Another
positive set of results. A boost to the
outlook that exceeded expectations for
them. Costs. They're also able to keep
them low because they have low
groceries, not exposed to tariffs. So
those shares up 4% in the pre-market.
Lisa, thank you so much, Danny. Right
now, let's turn to tech. Nvidia CEO
Jensen Hang meeting with President Trump
and lawmakers on Capitol Hill. People
familiar with the matter telling
Bloomberg a bill limiting the company's
ability to sell advanced AI chips to
China will not be part of upcoming
legislation. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo joins
us now. Ed, do you s see this as a
signal that the mood is changing and
that national security is now the United
States not having its technology sold
internationally, not that US technology
will be allowed out of the US into say
China's hands? Yeah, there's a very uh
specific point of distinction of what
the omission of that that rule making
and the gain act uh provides for. The
original proposal was that Nvidia would
have to prioritize American customers
for the lead edge chips over a potential
export customer. Um which would have of
course caught China within that. You
know, the pieces of news that came out
of Jensen Mong's visits to DC yesterday
were export controls have been discussed
with the president and we know because
Jensen Mong went on a two and a half
hour Joe Rogan podcast that they talk
regularly about this issue. There also
I'm interested in AMH's take on this.
You know, there is very much a
consciousness particularly among
Republican lawmakers that they want uh
Nvidia wants to be able to export to
China, right? But the baseline
assumption of this company is zero
revenues from that market. The more
interesting point here is what does
China want? You know, Jensen in speaking
to reporters kind of acknowledge we
don't even know that if we were
permitted to ex export the technology,
would China take it? And if you look at
some of the Bloomberg reporting
overnight, there's there is clear signal
that China isn't necessarily that
interested in a deprecated American chip
at this moment in time. Well, yes. He's
saying that China will not accept a
degraded chip, Ed, but will they accept
a high advanced chip, which basically
would mean the administration, to Lisa's
point, having to do a little bit of
reverse cost when it comes to national
security. Do you think Jensen Wong was
able to get that point across in
Washington DC? This is his view that
he's been lobbying. Yeah, you know,
clearly um Jensen and and Nvidia are
staying in close proximity to the
administration and not just the
administration, right? Congress because
that's going to be a factor, you know,
uh but that Jensen is also not foolish,
you know, he literally said we do not
know what the state of play is on
whether we'll be able to or not. We've
talked a lot um AMH about this spectrum
of China hawkishness. At one end you
have the China hawks who say we must not
sell this technology under any
circumstances with particular anxiety
that China will use the technology for
military purposes. But at the other end
and those close to the president
advising him there is a a softer
attitude which is it is better to sell
some sort of technology but it must be
deprecated to China than none at all
because that will create a vacuum if we
sell none at all. a vacuum by which you
know China's domestic players will uh
occupy and then potentially move ahead
of of the United States. Again, another
thing that simply gentle said to
reporters overnight was America is still
ahead but you know be very clear about
the threat and potential competition
that China poses which isn't new. He
said that so many times.
>> Just quickly here Ed, it does seem like
Justin Wong has had the lead position,
the pole position when it comes to
Washington DC and influencing President
Trump. It seems like Alphabet's AI chips
are gaining ground when it comes to the
rest of the universe. How do you parse
that out? How much ground do you
actually see the Google chips as
gaining?
>> I I I don't hear any other word more
often than TPU every single day. TPU,
TPU, TPU. You know, markets have moved
in recent weeks when there's been
reports that Alphabet is considering
allowing third parties to take the the
product selling it through Google Cloud
Platform. the the technology push back
on that would be that TPUs are designed
for a very narrow and specific use case
whereas GPUs from Nvidia principally but
also AMD have much broader application
they're much more diverse um it's the
thing that everyone is waiting on and if
there is clear tangible evidence of
displacement in other words a big
technology company opting for Alphabets
TPUs over uh an Nvidia in that
circumstance then it would be evidence
that the market's moving forward on this
and it's no surprise that once Once
again, it's one of the most read stories
on the terminal today.
>> Ed Ledllo, thank you so much for being
with us and we look forward to your
coverage uh later today. That does seem
to be the story and I think Lisa
Charlotte made a really good point
earlier about how we do seem to be at a
crossroads where the story is changing
with respect to AI and now it's show me
the money and show me the ability to
create a an efficient chip that also is
cost effective. Right? It might not be
as energyintensive as the chips we have
been talking about this entire year to
Lisa Shallot's point and you almost feel
that urgency when these CEOs talk or we
get leaks of their memos and we go back
to how this week started with open AI
talking about code red moment based on
what Gemini was doing it and that's
based off what was Google had their own
code red moment ring the alarm because
of open AI and this is going to be huge
story for 2026
>> so much code red tomorrow we get data
well at least we some data core PCE
sounds exciting but it's from September
so don't get too excited. We also get
personal income and spending from
September. Uh we also coming up tomorrow
we'll have wonderful insights from
Christopher Veron of Strategus, Kate
Moore of City Wealth, Abby Yoder of JP
Morgan Private Bank and Nadia Levelville
of UBS as we look ahead to a massive
week of the Fed decision amid this
mastrom of uncertainty. This was
Bloomberg surveillance. Good morning.